2025 - 2026  LEGISLATURELRB-1326/1
CMH:cdc
2025 SENATE BILL 17
February 5, 2025 - Introduced by Senators JAMES  and TOMCZYK , cosponsored by 
Representatives GOEBEN , ARMSTRONG , MURPHY , DITTRICH , NEDWESKI , B. 
JACOBSON , CALLAHAN , BRILL, ALLEN , SUBECK , WICHGERS , MURSAU  and 
BEHNKE . Referred to Committee on Judiciary and Public Safety.
AN ACT to amend  940.203 (2) (intro.), (a) and (b) of the statutes; relating to:  
special circumstances battery to a community service officer and providing a 
penalty.
Analysis by the Legislative Reference Bureau
Under current law, a person who intentionally causes bodily harm to another 
person commits the crime of simple battery and is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.  
Current law provides greater penalties for special circumstances battery, which is 
defined as intentionally causing or threatening to cause bodily harm to certain 
persons.  For example, under current law, a person who intentionally causes or 
threatens to cause bodily harm to a law enforcement officer in response to an action 
that officer took in an official capacity is guilty of a Class H felony.  The bill adds a 
community service officer so to make it a Class H felony to cause or threaten to 
cause bodily harm to a community service officer in response to an action the CSO 
took in an official capacity.
Because this bill creates a new crime or revises a penalty for an existing crime, 
the Joint Review Committee on Criminal Penalties may be requested to prepare a 
report.
The people of the state of Wisconsin, represented in senate and assembly, do 
enact as follows:1
2
32025 - 2026  Legislature
SENATE BILL 17- 2 - LRB-1326/1
CMH:cdc
SECTION  1
SECTION  1.  940.203 (2) (intro.), (a) and (b) of the statutes are amended to 
read:
940.203 (2) (intro.)  Whoever intentionally causes bodily harm or threatens to 
cause bodily harm to the person or family member of any judge, prosecutor, or law 
enforcement officer, or community service officer under all of the following 
circumstances is guilty of a Class H felony:
(a)  At the time of the act or threat, the actor knows or should have known that 
the victim is a judge, prosecutor, or law enforcement officer, or community service 
officer or a member of the judge [s, prosecutor [s, or law enforcement officer [s, or 
community service officer [s family.
(b)  The act or threat is in response to any action taken by a judge, prosecutor, 
or law enforcement officer, or community service officer in an official capacity.
(END)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13