2025 - 2026  LEGISLATURELRB-2080/1
ALL:all
2025 ASSEMBLY BILL 50
February 18, 2025 - Introduced by JOINT  COMMITTEE  ON FINANCE , by request of 
Governor Tony Evers. Referred to Joint Committee on Finance. 
 
  ***AUTHORS SUBJECT TO CHANGE***
AN ACT; relating to:  state finances and appropriations, constituting the 
executive budget act of the 2025 legislature.
Analysis by the Legislative Reference Bureau
INTRODUCTION
This bill is the executive budget bill under section 16.47 (1) of the statutes.  It 
contains the governor [s recommendations for appropriations for the 2025 ]27 fiscal 
biennium.
The bill sets the appropriation levels in chapter 20 of the statutes for the 
2025]27 fiscal biennium.  The descriptions that follow in this analysis relate to the 
most significant changes in the law that are proposed in the bill.
For additional information concerning the bill, see the Department of 
Administration [s publication Budget in Brief  and the executive budget books, the 
Legislative Fiscal Bureau [s summary document, and the Legislative Reference 
Bureau[s drafting files, which contain separate drafts on each policy item.
__________________________________________________________________
GUIDE TO THE BILL
The budget bill is organized like other bills.  First, treatments of statutes 
appear in ascending numerical order of the statute affected.  Next, any treatments 
of prior session laws appear ordered by the year of original enactment and then by 
act number (for instance, a treatment of 2021 Wisconsin Act 15 would precede a 1
22025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 2 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
treatment of 2023 Wisconsin Act 6).  Next, any treatments of the Administrative 
Rules appear.
The remaining sections of the budget bill are organized by type of provision 
and, within each type, alphabetically by state agency.  The first two digits of the 
four-digit section number indicate the type of provision:
91XX  Nonstatutory provisions.
92XX  Fiscal changes.
93XX  Initial applicability.
94XX  Effective dates.
The remaining two digits indicate the state agency or subject area to which the 
provision relates:
XX01  Administration.
XX02  Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection.
XX03  Arts Board.
XX04  Building Commission.
XX05  Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Board.
XX06  Children and Families.
XX07  Circuit Courts.
XX08  Corrections.
XX09  Court of Appeals.
XX10  District Attorneys.
XX11  Educational Communications Board.
XX12  Elections Commission.
XX13  Employee Trust Funds.
XX14  Employment Relations Commission.
XX15  Ethics Commission.
XX16  Financial Institutions.
XX17  Governor.
XX18  Health and Educational Facilities Authority.
XX19  Health Services.
XX20  Higher Educational Aids Board.
XX21  Historical Society.
XX22  Housing and Economic Development Authority.
XX23  Insurance.
XX24  Investment Board.
XX25  Joint Committee on Finance.
XX26  Judicial Commission.
XX27  Justice.
XX28  Legislature.
XX29  Lieutenant Governor.
XX30  Local Government.
XX31  Military Affairs.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 3 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
XX32  Natural Resources.
XX33  Public Defender Board.
XX34  Public Instruction.
XX35  Public Lands, Board of Commissioners of.
XX36  Public Service Commission.
XX37  Revenue.
XX38  Safety and Professional Services.
XX39  Secretary of State.
XX40  State Fair Park Board.
XX41  Supreme Court.
XX42  Technical College System.
XX43  Tourism.
XX44  Transportation.
XX45  Treasurer.
XX46  University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority; 
 Medical College of Wisconsin.
XX47  University of Wisconsin System.
XX48  Veterans Affairs.
XX49  Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation.
XX50  Workforce Development.
XX51  Other.
For example, for general nonstatutory provisions relating to the State 
Historical Society, see S ECTION  9121.  For any agency not assigned a two-digit 
identification number or any provision that does not relate to the functions of a 
particular agency, see number 51 ( Other ) within each type of provision.  Separate 
section numbers and headings appear for each type of provision and for each state 
agency, even if there are no provisions included in that section number and heading.
Following is a list of the most commonly used abbreviations appearing in the 
analysis:
BCPL Board of Commissioners of Public Lands
DATCP Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection
DCF Department of Children and Families
DFI Department of Financial Institutions
DHS Department of Health Services
DMA Department of Military Affairs
DNR Department of Natural Resources
DOA Department of Administration
DOC Department of Corrections
DOJ Department of Justice
DOR Department of Revenue
DOT Department of Transportation
DPI Department of Public Instruction2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 4 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
DSPS Department of Safety and Professional Services
DVA Department of Veterans Affairs
DWD Department of Workforce Development
ETF Department of Employee Trust Funds
GPR General purpose revenue
HEAB  Higher Educational Aids Board
JCF Joint Committee on Finance
OCI Office of the Commissioner of Insurance
PSC Public Service Commission
SPD State Public Defender
SHS State Historical Society
TCS Technical College System
UW University of Wisconsin
WEDC Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation
WHEDA Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority
WHEFA Wisconsin Health and Educational Facilities Authority
__________________________________________________________________
AGRICULTURE
Grants for biodigester operator certification and regional planning
This bill requires DATCP to provide grants to individuals seeking biodigester 
operator certification.  Biodigesters are used to break down organic material into 
gas, liquids, and solids.
The bill also requires DATCP to provide planning grants for establishing 
regional biodigesters in the state.
Dairy agriculture resilience investment now grant pilot program
The bill requires DATCP to create a dairy agriculture resilience investment 
now grant pilot program, under which DATCP must provide grants to dairy 
producers with fewer than 1,000 head of milking cows to undertake projects 
designed to improve the dairy producers [ operational efficiency and resilience.
Transition to grass pilot program
The bill creates a transition to grass pilot program in DATCP to provide 
support and grants to farmers who are implementing livestock grass-based 
managed grazing systems and farmers and agribusinesses in the grass-fed 
livestock business.  Under the bill, DATCP may award up to $40,000 to each grantee 
and must disperse 75 percent of the award in the first year following DATCP [s 
decision to grant the award and 12.5 percent of the award in each of the second and 
third years following DATCP [s decision to grant the award.
Farmland preservation implementation grants
The bill authorizes DATCP to award grants to counties to implement a 
certified county farmland preservation plan.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 5 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Sandhill crane damage reimbursement program
The bill requires DATCP to administer a program to provide reimbursements 
to eligible applicant farmers for the purchase of seed treatment that is registered for 
use on corn seed to discourage sandhill cranes from consuming the seed.  Under the 
program, applicants may be reimbursed for up to 50 percent of the actual cost of the 
purchase of seed treatment, not to exceed $6,250 per farm, per year.
Value-added agricultural practices
The bill allows DATCP to provide education and technical assistance related 
to producing value-added agricultural products.  Under the bill, DATCP may 
provide education and assistance related to organic farming practices; collaborate 
with organic producers, industry participants, and local organizations that 
coordinate organic farming; and stimulate interest and investment in organic 
production.  The bill also allows DATCP to provide grants to organic producers, 
industry participants, and local organizations, which may be used to provide 
education and technical assistance related to organic farming, to help create 
organic farming plans, and to assist farmers in transitioning to organic farming.  
The bill also authorizes DATCP to provide grants to entities to provide education 
and training to farmers about best practices related to grazing.  DATCP is also 
authorized under the bill to help farmers market value-added agricultural 
products.
Meat processing tuition and curriculum development grants
The bill requires DATCP to provide grants to universities, colleges, and 
technical colleges to reimburse tuition costs of students enrolled in a meat 
processing program and for curriculum development of those meat processing 
programs.  Each tuition reimbursement covers up to 80 percent of the tuition cost 
for enrolling in a meat processing program, limited to a maximum reimbursement 
of $7,500.
Food security and Wisconsin products grant program
The bill allows DATCP to provide grants to food banks, food pantries, and 
other nonprofit organizations to purchase Wisconsin food products.
Grants for food waste reduction pilot projects
The bill requires DATCP to provide grants for food waste reduction pilot 
projects that have an objective of preventing food waste, redirecting surplus food to 
hunger relief organizations, and composting food waste.  Under the bill, DATCP 
must give preference to grant proposals that serve census tracts for which the 
median household income is below the statewide median household income and in 
which no grocery store is located.
Farm to fork grant program
The bill creates a farm to fork program, similar to the existing farm to school 
program, to connect entities, other than school districts, that have cafeterias to 
nearby farms to provide locally produced foods in meals and snacks, to help the 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 6 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
public develop healthy eating habits, to provide nutritional and agricultural 
education, and to improve farmers [ incomes and direct access to markets.  Under 
the bill, DATCP may provide grants to entities for these purposes.
Spending cap for the Wisconsin agricultural exports program
Under current law, the Center for International Agribusiness Marketing, 
operated by DATCP, promotes the export of Wisconsin agricultural and 
agribusiness products in foreign markets.  Current law provides that the center 
may not expend more than $1,000,000 in any fiscal year.
The bill eliminates the $1,000,000-per-year spending cap for the center.
Changes to the agricultural conservation easement purchase program
In the 2009-11 biennial budget act, the agricultural conservation easement 
purchase program was created for the purchase of agricultural conservation 
easements, from willing landowners, by DATCP in conjunction with political 
subdivisions and nonprofit conservation organizations. An agricultural 
conservation easement (easement) is an interest in land that preserves the land for 
agricultural use while the ownership of the land itself remains with the landowner.  
Under the program as it was created in the act, DATCP was required to solicit 
applications to the program at least once annually and was provided $12,000,000 in 
general fund supported borrowing for the purchase of the easements.  Since the 
program was first created, the requirement that DATCP solicit applications to the 
program at least once annually was repealed, DATCP [s authority for $12,000,000 in 
general fund supported borrowing for the purchase of the easements was repealed, 
and a new provision required DNR to provide to DATCP funds from the Warren 
Knowles-Gaylord Nelson stewardship program for the purchase of the easements.
The bill undoes those changes, reinstating DATCP [s requirement to solicit 
applications to the program at least once annually, providing DATCP authority for 
$15,000,000 in general fund supported borrowing for the purchase of easements, 
and removing the requirement that DNR provide DATCP funds from the Warren 
Knowles-Gaylord Nelson stewardship program for the purchase of the easements.
Commercial nitrogen optimization program
Under current law, DATCP must award grants under a commercial nitrogen 
optimization pilot program to agricultural producers and to UW System 
institutions that implement a project that optimizes the application of commercial 
nitrogen for at least two growing seasons.  DATCP must award the grants from an 
annual segregated appropriation account that is funded by the environmental fund.  
A grant to a farmer and the eligible UW System institution collaborating with the 
farmer may not exceed, in total, $50,000.  DATCP must attempt to provide grants 
under the program to farmers in different parts of the state and for projects in areas 
that have different soil types or geologic characteristics.
The bill removes the word XpilotY from the statutory language describing the 
program and funds the program from a new biennial segregated appropriation 
account that is funded by the environmental fund.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 7 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Truth-in-labeling requirements for milk, dairy, and wild rice
Under the bill, no person may label a food product as, or sell or offer for sale a 
food product that is labeled as, any type of milk unless the food product is cow [s 
milk, hooved or camelid mammals [ milk, or a type of dairy milk that meets certain 
specifications under federal law.
In addition, no person may label a food product as, or sell or offer for sale a food 
product that is labeled as, a type of dairy product or a dairy ingredient unless the 
food product is a dairy product or dairy ingredient that is or is derived from cow [s 
milk, hooved or camelid mammal [s milk, or a dairy product that meets certain 
specifications under federal law.
Finally, the bill prohibits any person from labeling wild rice as Xtraditionally 
harvested Y unless the wild rice is harvested using traditional wild rice harvesting 
methods of American Indian tribes or bands.  The bill requires DATCP to 
promulgate a rule defining traditional wild rice harvesting methods of American 
Indian tribes or bands.  Under the bill, DATCP must obtain the advice and 
recommendations of the Great Lakes Inter-Tribal Council, Inc., before 
promulgating a rule defining a traditional method of wild rice harvesting.
Appropriation limit for the producer-led watershed protection grant 
program
DATCP administers the producer-led watershed protection grant program, 
which provides grants to groups of farmers in the same watershed to implement 
nonpoint source pollution abatement activities.  Under current law, DATCP may 
not allocate more than $1,000,000 per fiscal year for this program.  The bill 
increases that maximum amount to $1,250,000.
Agricultural enterprise area maximum acreage
Under current law, DATCP may designate agricultural enterprise areas, with 
a combined area of not more than 2,000,000 acres, targeted for agricultural 
preservation and development.  The bill increases the maximum acreage for 
designated agricultural enterprise areas to 3,000,000.
Veterinary examining board appropriation uses
Current law provides an appropriation to DATCP, from all moneys received by 
the veterinary examining board when issuing or renewing credentials, for the 
purpose of supporting the activities of the board.  The bill changes this 
appropriation so that it may also be used to provide dog license tags and forms; 
perform other activities related to the regulation of dogs; administer the rabies 
control program its media campaign; and carry out activities relating to humane 
officers.  Humane officers are trained and certified officers appointed by political 
subdivisions to enforce certain regulations relating to animals.
Bonding for soil and water resource management
The bill increases the general obligation bonding authority for the Soil and 
Water Resource Management Program by $10,000,000.  The program, which is 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 8 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
administered by DATCP, awards grants to counties to help fund their land and 
water conservation activities.
COMMERCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
BUSINESS  ORGANIZATIONS  AND FINANCIAL  INSTITUTIONS
Catastrophe savings accounts 
Under the bill, a person may establish an account at a financial institution 
and designate the account as a catastrophe savings account.  The account may be 
used to hold savings for expenses related to a catastrophic event, which is defined as 
a tornado, hurricane, or severe storm resulting in flooding, damaging hail, extreme 
wind, or extremely cold temperatures.  If the account owner maintains a property 
insurance policy covering catastrophic events, deposits in the account are limited, 
based on the amount of the policy deductible, to either $2,000 or the lesser of 
$15,000 or twice the amount of the policy deductible. Deposits in a catastrophe 
savings account may be withdrawn only to pay the following relating to property 
damage caused by a catastrophic event:  1) repair costs or other losses to the extent 
the costs or losses are not covered by a property insurance policy or are self-insured 
losses, and 2) any portion of a policy [s deductible.  A person may not be an account 
owner of more than one catastrophe savings account.  For state income tax 
purposes, the owner may subtract from taxable income the amount of the deposits 
made to and any increase in the value of a catastrophe savings account.
DFI information on worker misclassification
The bill requires DFI to provide informational materials and resources on 
worker misclassification to each person who files with DFI documents forming a 
business corporation, nonstock corporation, limited liability company, limited 
liability partnership, or limited partnership.  See Employment.
COMMERCE
Prohibiting discrimination in broadband
The bill prohibits a broadband service provider from denying a group of 
potential residential customers access to its broadband service because of the 
group[s race or income.  Under the bill, DATCP has authority to enforce the 
prohibition and to promulgate related rules.  The bill also authorizes any person 
affected by a broadband service provider who violates the prohibition to bring a 
private action.
Broadband subscriber rights
The bill establishes various requirements for broadband service providers, 
including the following:  1) broadband service providers must provide service 
satisfying minimum standards established by PSC, and subscribers may terminate 
contracts if the broadband service provider fails to satisfy those standards; 2) 
broadband service providers must disclose the factors that may cause the actual 
broadband speed experience of a subscriber to vary, and provide service as 
described in advertisements or representations made to subscribers; 3) broadband 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 9 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
service providers must repair broadband service within 72 hours after a subscriber 
reports a broadband service interruption that is not the result of a major system-
wide or large area emergency; 4) broadband service providers must give subscribers 
credit for interruptions of broadband service that last more than four hours in a 
day; and 5) broadband service providers must give subscribers at least 30 days [ 
advance written notice before instituting a rate increase, at least seven days [ 
advance written notice of any scheduled routine maintenance that causes a service 
slowdown, interruption, or outage, at least 10 days [ advance written notice of a 
change in a factor that may cause the originally disclosed broadband speed 
experience to vary, and at least 10 days [ advance written notice of disconnecting 
service, unless the disconnection is requested by the subscriber.
Internet service provider registration
The bill requires each Internet service provider in this state to register with 
PSC.
Severe thunderstorm price gouging
Under current law, no manufacturer, producer, supplier, wholesaler, 
distributor, or retailer may sell or offer to sell consumer goods or services at 
unreasonably excessive prices if the governor by executive order has certified that 
the state or a part of the state is in a period of abnormal economic disruption due to 
an emergency.  An Xemergency Y in this context includes a destructive act of nature, 
a hostile action, terrorism, or a disruption of energy supplies that poses a risk to the 
public[s economic well-being, public health, or welfare.  A Xconsumer good or 
serviceY under the law means those goods or services that are used primarily for 
personal, family, or household purposes.
The bill prohibits residential building contractors, tree trimmers, and 
restoration and mitigation services providers that are operating within a 
geographic region impacted by, and repairing damage caused by, a severe 
thunderstorm from doing either of the following:  1)  charging an unreasonably 
excessive price for labor in comparison to the market price charged for comparable 
services in the geographic region impacted by the weather event and 2) charging an 
insurance company a rate for a consumer good or service that exceeds what the 
residential building contractor, tree trimmer, or restoration and mitigation services 
provider would otherwise charge a member of the general public for the consumer 
good or service.  XSevere thunderstorm Y is defined in the bill to mean a weather 
event in which any of the following occurs:  1) hail that is one inch or greater in 
diameter, 2) wind gusts in excess of 50 knots, or 3) a tornado.
The bill requires DATCP to promulgate rules to establish formulas or other 
standards to be used in determining whether a price for labor is unreasonably 
excessive.  Under the bill, DATCP or, after consulting with DATCP, DOJ may 
commence an action against a person that has violated the prohibition in the bill to 
recover a civil forfeiture of not more than $1,000 per violation, to temporarily or 
permanently restrain or enjoin the person from violating the prohibition in the bill, 
or both.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 10 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Sales by a municipality or county of wine in a public park
The bill allows a municipality or county to sell wine in its public parks without 
an alcohol beverage license.
Under current law, with limited exceptions, no person may sell alcohol 
beverages to a consumer unless the seller possesses a license or permit authorizing 
the sale.  Under one exception, no license or permit is required for the sale, by 
officers or employees of a county or municipality, of fermented malt beverages 
(beer) in a public park operated by the county or municipality.
The bill applies this exception to wine along with beer.
ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT
Changes to the state main street program
Under current law, WEDC is required to establish and administer a state 
main street program to coordinate state and local participation in programs offered 
by the national main street center to assist municipalities in planning, managing, 
and implementing programs for revitalization of commercial areas having historic 
significance.
Under current law, a recipient of assistance under the state main street 
program must be a city, village, or town.  Under the bill, eligible recipients include 
tribal governments, chambers of commerce, and nonprofit organizations.
The bill eliminates the requirements that WEDC contract with the national 
main street center for services related to revitalizing commercial areas having 
historic significance and develop a plan describing the objectives of the state main 
street program and the methods by which WEDC will carry out certain 
responsibilities specified by law.
The bill also eliminates the requirements that, in developing criteria for use in 
selecting participants in the state main street program, WEDC include the 
following:
1.  Local organizational and financial commitment to employ a program 
manager for not less than five years.
2.  Local assistance in paying for the services of a design consultant.
3.  Local commitment to assist in training persons to direct activities related 
to business areas in municipalities that do not participate in the state main street 
program.
Under the bill, in selecting participants in the state main street program, 
WEDC must evaluate and consider the potential in the business area selected by 
the applicant to retain small businesses, attract new businesses, generate new 
economic activity and grow the local tax base, and create new employment 
opportunities.  The bill also retains the current law requirement that WEDC 
consider private and public sector interest in and commitment to revitalization of 
the business area selected by the applicant and potential private sector investment 
in the business area selected by the applicant.
Finally, the bill changes the definition of Xbusiness area Y for the purposes of 
the state main street program from Xa commercial area existing at the time services 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 11 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
under the state main street program are requested and having historic 
significance Y to Xa downtown area or historic commercial district. Y
Workforce housing modifications to the business development tax credit
The bill makes adjustments to the workforce housing investments award 
under the business development tax credit.  Under current law, a person may claim 
tax benefits of an amount equal to up to 15 percent of the person [s investment, 
comprised only of capital expenditures, in workforce housing for employees.  Under 
the bill, the investment in workforce housing for which a person may receive tax 
benefits may include contributions made to a third party for the building or 
rehabilitating of workforce housing, including contributions made to a local 
revolving loan fund program.  The bill also removes the requirement that the 
workforce housing for which a person may receive tax benefits for investing in be for 
employees.
Wage thresholds for business development and enterprise zone tax credits
The bill raises the minimum wage thresholds for the business development 
and enterprise zone tax credits for businesses that enter into contracts with WEDC 
after December 31, 2025.  Under current law, WEDC may certify businesses that 
engage in qualifying activities, including full-time job creation and retention, to 
claim the credits.  One requirement for claiming either credit is that the business 
enter into a contract with WEDC.  In its contracts, WEDC uses a definition of Xfull-
time employee Y that means an individual who, among other things, is paid at least 
150 percent of the federal minimum wage.  The bill changes this minimum wage 
threshold to $34,220 for the business development tax credit and to $34,220 in a 
tier I county or municipality and $45,390 in a tier II county or municipality for the 
enterprise zone tax credit, with all these amounts adjusted annually for inflation. 
Additionally, under current law, the enterprise zone tax credit is partially based on 
the wages paid to zone employees that are at least 150 percent of the federal 
minimum wage in a tier I county or municipality or $30,000 in a tier II county or 
municipality.  The bill changes these thresholds to $34,220 and $45,390, 
respectively, with both amounts adjusted annually for inflation.
The bill also modifies the maximum wage earnings limit for businesses that 
enter into contracts with WEDC after December 31, 2025.  Under current law, the 
maximum wage earnings that may be considered per employee for the enterprise 
zone tax credit is $100,000.  The bill increases this amount to $151,300, which is 
adjusted annually for inflation, and establishes the same dollar amount limit for 
the business development tax credit.
The bill also adjusts the definition of Xfull-time job Y for the purposes of the 
business development and enterprise zone jobs tax credits by removing the current 
requirement that a worker work at least 2,080 hours per year, including paid leave 
and holidays, in order to be considered Xfull-time. Y
Enterprise zone designations
Under current law, WEDC may designate any number of enterprise zones for 
purposes of certifying taxpayers to claim tax credits for certain activities carried 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 12 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
out within an enterprise zone.  However, current law subjects WEDC [s designation 
of a new enterprise zone to the approval of JCF under passive review.  The bill 
provides that WEDC may designate no more than 30 enterprise zones and 
eliminates the requirement that WEDC seek approval for a new enterprise zone 
from JCF under passive review.
Adjustment to WEDC appropriation
The bill adjusts the calculation used to determine the amount of WEDC [s GPR 
appropriation.  The bill does not raise the expenditure cap on that appropriation, 
which is $16,512,500 per fiscal year.
WEDC[s unassigned fund balance
Current law requires that WEDC establish policies and procedures concerning 
its unassigned fund balance, which is defined as all moneys held by WEDC that 
WEDC is not obligated by law or by contract to expend for a particular purpose or 
that WEDC has not otherwise assigned to be expended for a particular purpose.  
Under current law, those policies and procedures must include as a target that 
WEDC[s unassigned fund balance on June 30 of each fiscal year be an amount 
equal to or less than one-sixth of WEDC [s total administrative expenditures for that 
fiscal year.  The bill eliminates the requirement that WEDC [s policies and 
procedures include that target for WEDC [s unassigned fund balance.
Main street bounceback grants
The bill increases by $50,000,000 the amount WEDC may expend from its 
GPR appropriation for general operations and economic development programs in 
fiscal year 2025-26 for the purpose of awarding grants of $10,000 each to small 
businesses and nonprofit organizations that open a new location or expand 
operations in a vacant commercial space.  A recipient of a grant under the bill may 
use grant moneys for commercial lease and mortgage payments, business operating 
expenses, and commercial building repair and tenant improvements.
Advanced manufacturing grants
The bill increases by $5,000,000 the amount WEDC may expend from its GPR 
appropriation for general operations and economic development programs in fiscal 
year 2025-26 for the purpose of establishing a program  to award matching grants 
to small and midsized manufacturing companies located in this state to invest in 
advanced manufacturing technologies.  No one company may receive more than 
$200,000 in grants under the bill, and no one grant under the bill may be for more 
than one-third of the amount invested in advanced manufacturing technologies  by 
the company.  To receive a grant under the bill, a company must commit to not 
reduce its employment below the level when the grant is awarded.  If a company 
that receives a grant under the bill fails to meet this commitment within 10 years 
after receiving the grant, the company must repay the grant amount to WEDC.  
WEDC may provide an exemption to the repayment requirement if it finds that the 
company has undergone a unique hardship.
Funding for the green innovation fund
The bill increases by $50,000,000 the amount WEDC may expend from its 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 13 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
GPR appropriation for general operations and economic development programs in 
fiscal year 2025-26 for the purpose of supporting the green innovation fund.
Funding for the Forward Agriculture program
The bill increases by $15,000,000 the amount WEDC may expend from its 
GPR appropriation for general operations and economic development programs in 
fiscal year 2025-26 for the purpose of providing state matching funds related to 
federal funding in conjunction with WiSys [s Forward Agriculture program to 
promote sustainable agriculture.
Accelerate Wisconsin
The bill increases by $10,000,000 the amount WEDC may expend from its 
GPR appropriation for general operations and economic development programs in 
fiscal year 2025-26 for the purpose of supporting a business accelerator program to 
be administered in cooperation with the UW System and aimed at developing 
research, including research from the UW System, into new startup businesses.  As 
part of the program, WEDC may award grants directly to businesses to assist in 
their growth and development and may award grants to or in support of business 
incubators.
Tribal enterprise accelerator program
The bill increases by $5,000,000 the amount WEDC may expend from its GPR 
appropriation for general operations and economic development programs in fiscal 
year 2025 ]26 for the purpose of creating a tribal enterprise accelerator program to 
offer statewide technical assistance and grants for community development 
investment and capacity building to American Indian tribes or bands in this state 
to diversify their revenue strategies in industries other than the gaming and 
entertainment industries.
Thrive Rural Wisconsin funding accessibility
The bill increases by $5,000,000 the amount WEDC may expend from its GPR 
appropriation for general operations and economic development programs in fiscal 
year 2025 ]26 for the purpose of supporting WEDC [s Thrive Rural Wisconsin 
program.  Under the bill, WEDC must provide funding to its established regional 
and tribal partners to develop and fund projects in nonmetropolitan municipalities 
with populations of less than 10,000 to provide for increased availability and 
accessibility of local project capital.
Financing projects for qualifying tax-exempt organizations
Under current law, WHEFA may issue bonds to finance certain projects of 
health, educational, research, and other nonprofit institutions.  The bill requires 
that those health, educational, research, and other nonprofit institutions be located 
in this state, headquartered in this state, or serving a population in this state.
Financing working capital costs of certain nonprofit institutions
Under current law, WHEFA may issue bonds to finance certain projects of 
health, educational, research, and other nonprofit institutions.  The bill authorizes 
WHEFA to issue bonds for the purpose of financing such institutions [ working 
capital costs.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 14 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
LANDLORD -TENANT
Notification of building code violations
Under current law, before entering into a lease with or accepting any earnest 
money or a security deposit from a prospective tenant, a landlord must disclose to 
the prospective tenant any building code or housing code violations of which the 
landlord has actual knowledge if the violation presents a significant threat to the 
prospective tenant [s health or safety.  The bill eliminates the condition that the 
landlord have actual knowledge of such a violation and that the threat to the 
prospective tenant [s health or safety be Xsignificant Y; under the bill, the landlord 
must disclose to a prospective tenant a building code or housing code violation, 
regardless of whether the landlord has actual knowledge of the violation, if the 
violation presents a threat to the prospective tenant [s health or safety.
Local landlord-tenant ordinances, moratoria on evictions, and rental 
property inspection requirements
The bill also makes changes to local landlord-tenant ordinances, local 
moratoria on evictions, and local rental property inspection requirements.  See 
Local Government .
TOURISM
Tourism marketing funding from Indian gaming receipts
Current law requires DOA to transfer portions of Indian gaming receipts to 
the Department of Tourism for certain tourism marketing expenses.  The bill 
eliminates that requirement.  The bill leaves in place an appropriation funding the 
same purposes from GPR and from the transportation fund.
American Indian tourism marketing
The bill requires DOA to award an annual grant to the Great Lakes Inter-
Tribal Council to provide funding for a program to promote tourism featuring 
American Indian heritage and culture.  As a condition of receiving the grant, the 
Great Lakes Inter-Tribal Council must include information on the tourism 
promotion program in its annual report to DOA.  The bill also transfers from the 
Department of Tourism to DOA a contract between the Great Lakes Inter-Tribal 
Council and the Department of Tourism that relates to the promotion of tourism 
featuring American Indian heritage and culture.
CORRECTIONAL SYSTEM
ADULT  CORRECTIONAL  SYSTEM
Earned compliance credit
The bill creates an earned compliance credit for time spent on extended 
supervision or parole.  Under current law, a person [s extended supervision or parole 
may be revoked if he or she violates a condition or rule of the extended supervision 
or parole.  If extended supervision or parole is revoked, the person is returned to 
prison for an amount of time up to the length of the original sentence, less any time 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 15 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
actually served in confinement and less any credit for good behavior.  Under current 
law, when extended supervision or parole is revoked, the time spent on extended 
supervision or parole is not credited as time served under the sentence.
Under the bill, an eligible inmate receives an earned compliance credit for time 
served on extended supervision or parole.  The earned compliance credit equals the 
amount of time served on extended supervision or parole without violating any 
condition or rule of extended supervision or parole.  Under the bill, a person is 
eligible to receive the earned compliance credit only if the person is not required to 
register as a sex offender and is serving a sentence for a crime that is not a specified 
violent crime or a specified crime against a child.  Under the bill, if a person [s 
extended supervision or parole is revoked, he or she may be incarcerated for up to 
the length of the original sentence, less any credit for time served in confinement, 
any credit for good behavior, and any earned compliance credit.
Earned release
Under current law, an eligible inmate may earn early release to parole or 
extended supervision by successfully completing a substance abuse program.  An 
inmate is eligible for earned release only if the inmate is serving time for a crime 
that is not a violent crime and, for an inmate who is serving a bifurcated sentence, 
the sentencing court determines that the inmate is eligible.
Under current law, DOC operates a mother-young child care program in which 
females in DOC custody who are pregnant or have a child that is less than one year 
old may be placed in less restrictive custodial placements and participate in 
services aimed at creating a stable relationship between the mother and her child 
and preparing the mother to be able to live in a safe, lawful, and stable manner in 
the community.
The bill expands the earned release program to include two new options: 1)  
successful completion of the mother-young child care program, or 2) successful 
completion of a vocational readiness program, which includes educational, 
vocational, treatment, or other qualifying evidence-based training programs to 
reduce recidivism.  The bill also provides that DOC, not the sentencing court, 
determines eligibility for earned release for all inmates.
Creating the Office of the Ombudsperson for Corrections
The bill creates the Office of the Ombudsperson for Corrections, attached to 
DOC.  The office is under the direction of an ombudsperson, who is appointed by the 
governor, is approved by a three-quarters vote of the senate, and may be removed 
only by the governor, for just cause.  Under the bill, the ombudsperson accepts 
complaints regarding facilities and abuse, unfair acts, and violations of rights of 
prisoners and juveniles from persons being held in state prisons and juvenile 
correctional facilities.  Under the bill, the ombudsperson has the power to 
investigate a variety of actions by DOC and make recommendations on the basis of 
the investigations.  If the ombudsperson determines to make a recommendation to 
a state prison or juvenile correctional facility, the superintendent of the state prison 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 16 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
or juvenile correctional facility has 30 days to respond to the recommendations of 
the ombudsperson.
Also under the bill, the Office of the Ombudsperson for Corrections must 
annually publish a report of its findings, recommendations, and investigation 
results and distribute the report to the governor, the chief clerk of each house of the 
legislature, and the secretary of corrections.
Contracts for temporary housing for or detention of persons placed on 
probation or sentenced to imprisonment 
Under current law, DOC may contract with local units of government for 
temporary housing or detention in jails or houses of correction for persons placed on 
probation or sentenced to imprisonment in state prisons or to the intensive 
sanctions program.  Under such a contract, the rate may not exceed $60 per person 
per day.  The bill increases the rate that may be set under such a contract to up to 
$80 per person per day.
JUVENILE  CORRECTIONAL  SYSTEM
Age of juvenile court jurisdiction
Under current law, a person 17 years of age or older who is alleged to have 
violated a criminal law is subject to the procedures specified in the Criminal 
Procedure Code and, on conviction, is subject to sentencing under the Criminal 
Code, which may include a sentence of imprisonment in the Wisconsin state 
prisons.  Currently, subject to certain exceptions, a person under 17 years of age 
who is alleged to have violated a criminal law is subject to the procedures specified 
in the Juvenile Justice Code and, on being adjudicated delinquent, is subject to an 
array of dispositions under that code, including placement in a juvenile correctional 
facility.  The bill raises from 17 to 18 the age at which a person who is alleged to 
have violated a criminal law is subject to the procedures specified in the Criminal 
Procedure Code and, on conviction, to sentencing under the Criminal Code.
Similarly, under current law, a person 17 years of age or older who is alleged to 
have violated a civil law or municipal ordinance is subject to the jurisdiction and 
procedures of the circuit court or, if applicable, the municipal court, while a person 
under 17 years of age who is alleged to have violated a civil law or municipal 
ordinance, subject to certain exceptions, is subject to the jurisdiction and 
procedures of the court assigned to exercise jurisdiction under the Juvenile Justice 
Code.  The bill raises from 17 to 18 the age at which a person who is alleged to have 
violated a civil law or municipal ordinance is subject to the jurisdiction and 
procedures of the circuit court or, if applicable, the municipal court.
Seventeen-year-old juvenile justice aids
The bill creates a sum sufficient appropriation under DCF for youth aids-
related purposes but only to reimburse counties, beginning on January 1, 2026, for 
costs associated with juveniles who were alleged to have violated a state or federal 
criminal law or any civil law or municipal ordinance at age 17.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 17 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Juvenile justice reform review committee
The bill creates a juvenile justice reform review committee in DCF with 
members appointed by the governor.  Under the bill, the committee is charged with 
studying and providing recommendations to DCF and DOC on how to do all of the 
following:
1.  Increase the minimum age of delinquency.
2.  Eliminate original adult court jurisdiction over juveniles.
3.  Modify the waiver procedure for adult court jurisdiction over juveniles and 
incorporate offenses currently subject to original adult court jurisdiction into the 
waiver procedure.
4.  Eliminate the serious juvenile offender program and create extended 
juvenile court jurisdiction with a blended juvenile and adult sentence structure for 
certain juvenile offenders.
5.  Prohibit placement of a juvenile in a juvenile detention facility for a status 
offense and limit sanctions and short-term holds in a juvenile detention facility to 
cases where there is a public safety risk.
6.  Sunset long-term post-disposition programs at juvenile detention facilities.
7.  Create a sentence adjustment procedure for youthful offenders.
8.  Conform with the U.S. Constitution the statutes that mandate imposing 
sentences of life imprisonment without parole or extended supervision to minors.
Under the bill, the committee terminates on September 15, 2026, and DCF 
and DOC must submit in their 2027 ]29 biennial budget requests a request to 
implement the committee [s recommendations.
Contract payments for placement of juveniles
The bill creates a sum sufficient GPR appropriation for DOC to make 
payments under contracts for the placement of juveniles.  The bill limits the 
appropriation to $20,000,000 in each fiscal year and sunsets it on July 1, 2029.
Juveniles placed at Mendota Juvenile Treatment Center
Under current law, DOC may transfer to the Mendota Juvenile Treatment 
Center (MJTC) juveniles who are under DOC [s supervision or juveniles who are 
placed in a Type 1 juvenile correctional facility regardless of whether those 
juveniles are under the supervision of DOC or a county department of social 
services or human services.  Current law requires DOC to reimburse DHS for the 
cost of providing services to these juveniles at MJTC at a per person daily cost 
specified by DHS.  The bill specifies that DOC is required to reimburse DHS only for 
the cost of services provided to juveniles who are under DOC [s supervision and are 
transferred to MJTC.
Daily rates for juvenile correctional services
Under current law, DOC charges counties for the costs of certain juvenile 
correctional services DOC provides according to a per person daily cost assessment 
specified in the statutes (daily rate).  Counties use community youth and family 
aids (youth aids) funding allocated to them from various state and federal moneys 
to pay these costs.  Under current law, the daily rate for care of a juvenile who is in 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 18 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
a Type 1 juvenile correctional facility or transferred from a juvenile correctional 
facility to an inpatient treatment facility is set at $1,268 until June 30, 2025.  The 
bill continues this daily rate until June 30, 2027.
Youth aids; allocations
Under current law, DCF is required to allocate to counties community youth 
and family aids (youth aids) funding.  Youth aids funding comes from various state 
and federal moneys and is used to pay for state-provided juvenile correctional 
services and local delinquency-related and juvenile justice services.  The bill 
updates the allocation of youth aids funding that is available to counties for the 
2025-27 fiscal biennium.
The bill eliminates current law requirements that some of the youth aids 
funding be allocated for emergencies related to youth aids, for alcohol and other 
drug abuse treatment programs, and to reimburse counties that are purchasing 
community supervision services from DOC for juveniles.  The bill also eliminates 
the community intervention program (CIP), under which DCF may award funding 
to counties for early intervention services for first offenders.  The bill replaces these 
allocations and CIP with the youth justice system improvement program.  Under 
the bill, DCF may use youth aids funding for the youth justice system improvement 
program to support diversion, prevention, and early intervention programs, to 
address emergencies related to youth aids, and to fund other activities required of 
DCF under youth aids.
Youth aids; administration
Under current law, youth aids funding is allocated to counties on a calendar 
year basis.  Youth aids funds that are not spent in the calendar year can be carried 
forward three ways:  1) DCF may carry forward 5 percent of a county [s allocation for 
that county for use in the subsequent calendar year; 2) DCF may carry forward 
$500,000 or 10 percent of its unspent youth aids funds, whichever is larger, for use 
in the subsequent two calendar years; and 3) DCF may carry forward any unspent 
emergency funds for use in the subsequent two calendar years.
The bill changes the way that unspent youth aids are carried forward.  Under 
the bill, DCF may still carry forward 5 percent of a county [s allocation for that 
county to use in the next calendar year.  However, instead of carrying forward 
$500,000 or 10 percent of its unspent youth aids funds, whichever is larger, for use 
in the next two calendar years, under the bill, DCF may transfer 10 percent of 
unspent youth aids funds to the appropriation for the youth justice system 
improvement program.
COURTS AND PROCEDURE
SUPREME  COURT  AND CIRCUIT  COURTS
Office of the Marshals of the Supreme Court
The bill creates the Office of the Marshals of the Supreme Court, to consist of 
one chief marshal of the supreme court, one deputy chief marshal of the supreme 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 19 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
court, deputy marshals of the supreme court, and administrative personnel.  The 
bill provides that the Office of the Marshals of the Supreme Court is a law 
enforcement agency and that the marshals of the supreme court are law 
enforcement officers who are employed for the purpose of detecting and preventing 
crime and enforcing laws or ordinances and are authorized to make arrests for 
violations of the laws or ordinances.  The bill requires the marshals of the supreme 
court to meet the requirements established by the Law Enforcement Standards 
Board for officer certification, police pursuit, recruitment, and firearms training 
and to comply with any other statutory requirements applicable to a law 
enforcement agency.
The bill also provides that marshals of the Supreme Court are protective 
occupation participants in the Wisconsin Retirement System.  Current law 
specifically classifies police officers, firefighters, and various other individuals as 
protective occupation participants.  Under the WRS, the normal retirement age of a 
protective occupation participant is lower than that of other participants and the 
percentage multiplier used to calculate retirement annuities is higher for protective 
occupation participants than for other participants.
The bill further provides that the Office of the Marshals of the Supreme Court 
may provide police services to the state court system, with statewide jurisdiction; 
provide protective services for the supreme court justices and their offices; provide 
security assessments for the justices, judges, and facilities of the state court system; 
and provide safety and security support services and advanced security planning 
services for circuit court proceedings.  The operation of the Office of the Marshals of 
the Supreme Court does not affect the operations or jurisdiction of sheriffs or local 
law enforcement agencies to perform courthouse security, handle active 
emergencies, perform criminal investigations, or perform any other law 
enforcement functions.
Circuit court payments
Under current law, the director of state courts must make payments to 
counties for certain circuit court costs.  Under the bill, beginning on January 1, 
2026, the director of state courts must make additional payments to circuit courts, 
including a payment that, beginning January 1, 2027, is available only to counties 
that operate an alternatives to prosecution and incarceration program.
Circuit court branches
The bill adds two additional circuit court branches for Brown County on 
August 1, 2026.
SPECIAL  PROSECUTORS  AND THE STATE  PUBLIC  DEFENDER
Compensation for special prosecutors
Under current law, the SPD provides legal representation for indigent persons 
in criminal and delinquency cases.  The SPD assigns cases either to staff attorneys 
or to local private attorneys.  A private attorney assigned to a case by the SPD is 
paid an hourly amount that varies depending on the year in which the case was 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 20 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
assigned.  For instance, a private attorney assigned a case between December 1, 
1992, and July 29, 1995, was generally paid $50 per hour for time spent related to 
the case and $25 per hour for time spent in related travel.  The amount has 
increased periodically; a private attorney assigned a case after July 1, 2023, is 
generally paid $100 per hour for time spent related to the case and $50 per hour for 
time spent in related travel.
Current law provides the same compensation to other attorneys as the 
compensation paid to a private attorney assigned to case by the SPD.  For example, 
if a judge appoints a special prosecutor to perform the duties of a district attorney, 
the special prosecutor compensation is the amount paid to a private attorney for a 
case assigned between December 1, 1992, and July 29, 1995.  The bill changes the 
compensation for the special prosecutor to be the amount paid to a private attorney 
assigned a case on the date the approval was made.
Private bar reimbursement rate for cases involving violent crimes
Under current law, the SPD provides legal representation for indigent persons 
in criminal, delinquency, and certain related cases.  The SPD assigns cases either to 
staff attorneys or to local private attorneys.  Generally, a private attorney who is 
assigned a case by the SPD on or after July 1, 2023, is paid $100 per hour for time 
spent related to the case and $50 per hour for time spent in travel related to a case.  
The bill increases the rate the private attorney is paid for cases to $125 per hour if 
the case is assigned on or after July 1, 2025, and involves a charge of a violent 
crime.  The bill does not change the rate for cases that do not involve a charge of a 
violent crime or for travel.
DISTRICT  ATTORNEYS
Increase in deputy district attorney allocation
The bill increases the number of deputy district attorneys that may be 
appointed in a prosecutorial unit with a population of 200,000 or more but less than 
750,000 from three deputy district attorneys to four deputy district attorneys.
GENERAL  COURTS  AND PROCEDURE
Privacy protection for federal judicial officers
The bill adds current and former district judges and magistrate judges for 
federal district courts in this state as well as current and former bankruptcy judges 
for federal bankruptcy courts in this state to the list of judicial officers to whom 
certain privacy protections apply.  Current law provides, upon written request, 
certain privacy protections for the personal information of judicial officers.  Among 
other protections, if a government agency receives a written request from a judicial 
officer, the government agency may not publicly post or display publicly available 
content that includes a judicial officer [s personal information.  That information is 
also exempt from inspection and copying under public records law unless the agency 
has received consent to make that information available to the public.  Under 
current law, upon written request, a data broker may not knowingly sell, license, 
trade, purchase, or otherwise make available for consideration the personal 
information of a judicial officer or a judicial officer [s immediate family.  Current law 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 21 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
also provides that, if the judicial officer has made a written request, no person, 
business, or association may publicly post or display on the Internet publicly 
available content that includes the personal information of a judicial officer or the 
judicial officer [s immediate family.  The bill allows current and former federal 
district court judges, magistrate judges, and bankruptcy judges in this state to have 
these protections.
Sharing information regarding potential jurors
Under current law, DOT annually transmits to the director of state courts a 
list of persons residing in the state that includes certain information about those 
persons.  Each year, the director of state courts uses that information to compile a 
master list of potential jurors for use by the state circuit courts.  The bill requires 
DOT to also send that list to the clerks of court for the federal district courts within 
this state.
Also under current law, the director of state courts may request and use the 
following information, in addition to the DOT information, to create the master list:  
1) a list of registered voters from the Elections Commission; 2) a list of individuals 
who filed state income tax returns with DOR; 3) a list of child support payors and 
payees from DWD; 4) a list of recipients of unemployment compensation from DWD; 
and 5) a list of state residents issued approvals or licenses from DNR.  The bill 
requires, rather than allows, the director of state courts to use that information.  
The bill also modifies the requirements for those state agencies to transmit the lists 
they maintain to the director of state courts to be similar to DOT [s obligations.  For 
example, the bill requires each state agency to annually transmit the list the agency 
maintains to the director of state courts without the need for the director of state 
courts to request the information.
Qui tam actions for false claims
The bill restores a private individual [s authority to bring a qui tam claim 
against a person who makes a false or fraudulent claim for medical assistance, 
which was eliminated in 2015 Wisconsin Act 55, and further expands qui tam 
actions to include any false or fraudulent claims to a state agency.  A qui tam claim 
is a claim initiated by a private individual on his or her own behalf and on behalf of 
the state against a person who makes a false claim relating to medical assistance or 
other moneys from a state agency.  The bill provides that a private individual may 
be awarded up to 30 percent of the amount of moneys recovered as a result of a qui 
tam claim, depending upon the extent of the individual [s contribution to the 
prosecution of the action.  The individual may also be entitled to reasonable 
expenses incurred in bringing the action, as well as attorney fees.  The bill includes 
additional changes not included in the prior law to incorporate provisions enacted 
in the federal Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 and conform state law to the federal 
False Claims Act, including expanding provisions to facilitate qui tam actions and 
modifying the bases for liability to parallel the liability provisions under the federal 
False Claims Act.
In addition to qui tam claims, DOJ has independent authority to bring a claim 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 22 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
against a person for making a false claim for medical assistance.  The bill modifies 
provisions relating to DOJ [s authority to parallel the liability and penalty 
standards relating to qui tam claims and to parallel the forfeiture amounts provided 
under the federal False Claims Act.
CRIMES
Expungement
Under current law, a court may order a person [s criminal record expunged of a 
crime if all of the following apply:
1.  The maximum term of imprisonment for the crime is six years or less (Class 
H felony and below).
2.  The person committed the crime before the age of 25.
3.  The person had not been previously convicted of a felony.
4.  The crime was not a violent felony.
Current law specifies that the expungement order must be made only at 
sentencing and then the record is expunged when the person completes his or her 
sentence.  If the court does not order a criminal record expunged at sentencing, 
current law generally does not provide for another means to expunge the criminal 
record.
The bill makes several changes to the expungement process.  The bill removes 
the condition that the person committed the crime before the age of 25.  (The bill 
retains the conditions that the crime be no greater than a Class H felony, the person 
have no previous felony convictions, and the crime not be a violent felony.)  The bill 
makes certain crimes ineligible for expungement, such as traffic crimes, the crime 
of violating a domestic abuse restraining order or injunction, criminal trespass, and 
criminal damage to a business.  The bill also allows the sentencing court to order 
that a person [s record not be eligible for expungement.
The bill continues to allow the court to order at sentencing that the record be 
expunged when the person completes his or her sentence.  The bill also provides 
that, if the court did not make an order at sentencing, the person may file a petition 
with the sentencing court after he or she completes his or her sentence.  Upon 
receipt of the petition, the court must review the petition and then may order the 
record expunged or may deny the petition.  If the court denies the petition, the 
person may not file another petition for two years.  The person must pay a $100 fee 
to the county for a second petition, and no person may file more than two petitions 
per crime.  The bill limits a person to one expungement.  The changes described in 
this paragraph apply retroactively to persons who were convicted of a crime before 
the bill takes effect.
The bill provides that, if a record is expunged of a crime, that crime is not 
considered a conviction for employment purposes and specifies that employment 
discrimination because of a conviction record includes requesting a person to supply 
information regarding a crime if the record has been expunged of the crime.  
Finally, the bill provides that it is not employment discrimination because of 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 23 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
conviction record for the Law Enforcement Standards Board to consider a 
conviction that has been expunged with respect to applying any standard or 
requirement for the certification, decertification, or required training of law 
enforcement officers, tribal law enforcement officers, jail officers, and juvenile 
detention officers.
Immunity for certain controlled substances offenses
Current law grants immunity from prosecution for possessing a controlled 
substance to a person, called an aider, who summons or provides emergency 
medical assistance to another person because the aider believes the other person is 
suffering from an overdose or other adverse reaction to a controlled substance.  
Under 2017 Wisconsin Act 33, an aider was also immune from having probation, 
parole, or extended supervision revoked for possessing a controlled substance under 
the same circumstances.  Act 33 also granted the aided person immunity from from 
having probation, parole, or extended supervision revoked for possessing a 
controlled substance when an aider seeks assistance for the aided person.  The 
immunity applied only if the aided person completes a treatment program as part of 
his or her probation, parole, or extended supervision.  Act 33 also provided that a 
prosecutor must offer an aided person who is subject to prosecution for possessing a 
controlled substance a deferred prosecution agreement if the aided person 
completes a treatment program.
The expanded immunities under 2017 Wisconsin Act 33 were temporary, and 
expired on August 1, 2020.  The bill permanently restores these expanded 
immunities from 2017 Wisconsin Act 33.
Alternatives to prosecution for disorderly conduct
The bill requires a prosecutor to offer to certain disorderly conduct defendants 
a deferred prosecution agreement or an agreement in which the defendant 
stipulates to his or her guilt of a noncriminal ordinance violation.  Under the bill, a 
prosecutor must offer alternatives to prosecution to a person who has committed a 
disorderly conduct violation if it is the person [s first disorderly conduct violation, 
the person has not committed a similar violation previously, and the person has not 
committed a felony in the previous three years.  Under the bill, if the person is 
offered a deferred prosecution agreement, he or she must be required to pay 
restitution, if applicable.
EDUCATION
PRIMARY  AND SECONDARY  EDUCATION : GENERAL  AIDS  AND REVENUE  LIMITS
Per pupil revenue limit adjustment
Current law generally limits the total amount of revenue per pupil that a 
school district may receive from general school aids and property taxes in a school 
year to the amount of revenue allowed per pupil in the previous school year plus a 
per pupil adjustment, if any, as provided by law.  Current law provides a $325 per 
pupil adjustment each school year from 2023 to 2425.  Under the bill, beginning in 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 24 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
the 2026 ]27 school year, the per pupil adjustment is the per pupil increase for the 
previous school year as adjusted for any increase in the consumer price index.
Low revenue ceiling; per pupil amount and restrictions
Current law provides a minimum per pupil revenue limit for school districts, 
known as the revenue ceiling.  Under current law, the per pupil revenue ceiling is 
$11,000.  The bill increases the per pupil revenue ceiling to $12,000 for the 2025 ]26 
school year and to $12,400 for the 2026 ]27 school year and each subsequent school 
year.
Current law also provides that during the three school years following a school 
year in which an operating referendum fails in a school district, the school district [s 
revenue ceiling is the revenue ceiling that applied in the school year during which 
the referendum was held.  The bill eliminates the provision under which a school 
district[s revenue ceiling is the revenue ceiling from a previous school year because 
an operating referendum failed in the school district.
Revenue limits; personal property tax repeal aid
For purposes of school district revenue limits, current law defines Xstate aid Y 
as general school aid, computer aid, and exempt personal property aid.  The bill 
adds personal property tax repeal aid to the definition of Xstate aid. Y
Special adjustment aid
Under current law, a school district is guaranteed an amount of general 
equalization aid equal to at least 85 percent of the amount it received in the 
previous school year.  The bill increases the amount of general equalization aid that 
a school district is guaranteed to receive to an amount that is at least 90 percent of 
the amount it received in the previous school year.
Counting four-year-old kindergarten pupils
The bill changes how a pupil enrolled in a four-year-old kindergarten is 
counted by a school district for purposes of state aid and revenue limits.  Under 
current law, a pupil enrolled in a four-year-old kindergarten program is counted as 
0.5 pupil unless the program provides at least 87.5 additional hours of outreach 
activities, in which case the pupil is counted as 0.6 pupil.  Under the bill, if the four-
year-old kindergarten program requires full-day attendance by pupils for five days 
a week, a pupil enrolled in the program is counted as one pupil.
PRIMARY  AND SECONDARY  EDUCATION : CATEGORICAL  AIDS
Per pupil aid
Under current law, per pupil aid is a categorical aid paid to school districts.  
Per pupil aid is funded from a sum sufficient appropriation and is not considered for 
purposes of revenue limits.  Under current law, the amount of per pupil aid paid to 
a school district is calculated using a three-year average of the number of pupils 
enrolled in the school district and a per pupil amount set by law.  In the 2024 ]25 
school year, the per pupil amount is $742.  Under the bill, the per pupil amount is 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 25 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
$800 in the 2025 ]26 school year and $850 in the 2026 ]27 school year and each year 
thereafter.
In addition, beginning in the 2025 ]26 school year, the bill requires DPI to pay 
a second amount of per pupil aid to school districts based on the number of 
economically disadvantaged pupils enrolled in a school district.  Under the bill, 
beginning in the 2025 ]26 school year, in addition to the base amount of per pupil 
aid, DPI must also pay a school district an additional amount equal to 20 percent of 
the standard per pupil amount for each economically disadvantaged pupil enrolled 
in the school district in the previous year.  Under the bill, an economically 
disadvantaged pupil is a pupil who satisfies either the income eligibility criteria for 
a free or reduced-price lunch under federal law or other measures of poverty, as 
determined by DPI.
Funding for special education and school age parents programs
The bill changes the rate at which the state reimburses school boards, 
operators of independent charter schools, cooperative educational service agencies 
(CESAs), and county children with disabilities education boards (CCDEBs) for costs 
incurred to provide special education and related services to children with 
disabilities and for school age parents programs (eligible costs).  Under current law, 
the state reimburses the full cost of special education for children in hospitals and 
convalescent homes for orthopedically disabled children.  After those costs are paid, 
the state reimburses remaining eligible costs from the amount remaining in the 
appropriation account at a rate that distributes the full amount appropriated.
The bill changes the appropriation to a sum sufficient and provides that, 
beginning in the 2025 ]26 school year, after full payment of hospital and 
convalescent home costs, the remaining costs are reimbursed at 60 percent of 
eligible costs.
Currently, DPI provides 1) special education aid to school districts, 
independent charter schools, CESAs, and CCDEBs; 2) aid to school districts, 
CESAs, and CCDEBs for providing physical or mental health treatment services to 
private school and tribal school pupils; and 3) aid for school age parents programs to 
school districts only.
High-cost special education aid
The bill changes the rate at which the state reimburses school boards, 
operators of independent charter schools, CESAs, and CCDEBs for 
nonadministrative costs in excess of $30,000 incurred for providing special 
education and related costs to a child (aidable costs).  Under current law, DPI must 
reimburse 90 percent of aidable costs at a rate of 100 percent from a sum certain 
appropriation.  If the amount of the appropriation is insufficient to pay the full 90 
percent of aidable costs, DPI must prorate payments among eligible applicants.  
The bill changes the appropriation to a sum sufficient appropriation and provides 
that, beginning in the 2025-26 school year, DPI must reimburse 90 percent of 
aidable costs at a rate of 40 percent.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 26 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Sparsity aid
Under current law, a school district is eligible for sparsity aid if the number of 
pupils per square mile in the school district is less than 10 and the school district [s 
membership in the previous school year did not exceed 1,000 pupils.  The amount of 
aid is $400 per pupil if the school district [s membership in the previous school year 
did not exceed 745 pupils and $100 per pupil if the school district [s membership in 
the previous school year was between 745 and 1,000 pupils.  Beginning in the 
202526 school year, the bill increases these payment amounts to $500 and $200, 
respectively.
Current law also provides a reduced payment, known as a stop gap payment, 
to a school district that was eligible to receive sparsity aid in the previous school 
year but is not eligible to receive sparsity aid in the current school year because it no 
longer satisfies the pupils-per-square-mile requirement.  The amount of the stop 
gap payment is 50 percent of the amount of sparsity aid the school district received 
in the previous school year.  Under the bill, beginning in the 2025 ]26 school year, a 
school district is eligible for a sparsity aid stop gap payment if the school district is 
ineligible for sparsity aid in the current school year because it no longer satisfies 
the pupils-per-square-mile requirement or the membership requirement.
Pupil transportation aid
Under current law, a school district or an operator of a charter school that 
provides transportation to and from a school receives a state aid payment for 
transportation.  The amount of the aid payment depends on the number of pupils 
transported and the distance of each pupil [s residence from the school.  The bill 
increases aid payments for pupils who reside more than 12 miles from the school 
from $400 per pupil to $450 per pupil, beginning in the 2025 ]26 school year.
High cost transportation aid; eligibility
Under current law, a school district is eligible for high cost transportation aid 
if 1) the school district has a pupil population density of 50 or fewer pupils per 
square mile and 2) the school district [s per pupil transportation cost exceeds 140 
percent of the statewide average per pupil transportation cost.  The bill lowers the 
second eligibility criterion to a per pupil transportation cost that exceeds 135 
percent of the statewide average per pupil transportation cost.
Supplemental nutrition aid
The bill creates supplemental nutrition aid, a categorical aid to reimburse 
educational agencies for school meals provided to pupils who satisfy the income 
criteria for a reduced-price lunch under the federal school lunch program and 
pupils who do not satisfy the income criteria for a free or reduced-price lunch under 
the federal school lunch program.  An educational agency is eligible for 
supplemental nutrition aid if the educational agency does not charge pupils for 
school meals for which the educational agency receives reimbursement from the 
federal government.  Under the bill, the amount of aid is equal to the sum of 1) the 
number of school meals provided in the previous school year to pupils who satisfy 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 27 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
the income criteria for a reduced-price lunch multiplied by the difference between 
the free-meal reimbursement amount and the reduced-price-meal reimbursement 
amount and 2) the number of school meals provided in the previous year to pupils 
who do not satisfy the income criteria for a free or reduced-price lunch multiplied by 
the difference between the free-meal reimbursement amount and the 
reimbursement amount for a paid school meal.  Supplemental nutrition aid is first 
paid to educational agencies in the 2026 ]27 school year for school meals provided 
during the 2025 ]26 school year.  Under the bill, supplemental nutrition aid is 
funded by a sum sufficient appropriation, which ensures that educational agencies 
receive the full amount of aid to which they are entitled.
The bill defines a Xschool meal Y as a school lunch or snack under the federal 
school lunch program and a breakfast under the federal school breakfast program 
and an Xeducational agency Y as a school board, an operator of an independent 
charter school, the director of the Wisconsin Educational Services Program for the 
Deaf and Hard of Hearing, the director of the Wisconsin Center for the Blind and 
Visually Impaired, an operator of a residential care center for children and youth, a 
tribal school, or a private school.
School breakfast program
The bill expands eligibility for reimbursement under the school breakfast 
program to include operators of independent charter schools, the director of the 
Wisconsin Educational Services Program for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing, the 
director of the Wisconsin Center for the Blind and Visually Impaired, and operators 
of residential care centers for children and youth.  The bill also prohibits DPI from 
making a reimbursement for a breakfast served at a school in the previous school 
year if that school ceased operations during the prior school year.  This prohibition 
does not apply to reimbursements to a school district.
School mental health and pupil wellness; categorical aid
The bill changes the types of expenditures that are eligible for reimbursement 
under the state categorical aid program related to pupil mental health.
Under current law, DPI must make payments to school districts, independent 
charter schools, and private schools participating in parental choice programs (local 
education agencies) that increased the amount they spent to employ, hire, or retain 
social workers.  Under current law, DPI first pays each eligible local education 
agency 50 percent of the amount by which the eligible local education agency 
increased its expenditures for social workers in the preceding school year over the 
amount it expended in the school year immediately preceding the preceding school 
year.  If, after making those payments, there is money remaining in the 
appropriation account for that aid program, DPI makes additional payments to 
eligible local education agencies.  The amount of those additional payments is 
determined based on the amount remaining in the appropriation account and the 
amount spent by eligible local education agencies to employ, hire, and retain social 
workers during the previous school year.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 28 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
The bill expands eligibility for the payments under the aid program to include 
spending on school counselors, school social workers, school psychologists, and 
school nurses (pupil services professionals).  The bill also eliminates the two tier 
reimbursement structure of the aid program and eliminates the requirement that a 
local education agency is eligible for the aid only if the local education agency 
increased its spending.  Under the bill, any local education agency that made 
expenditures to employ, hire, or retain pupil services professionals during the 
previous school year is eligible for reimbursement under the aid program.
Aid for comprehensive school mental health services
Under current law, DPI awards grants to school districts and independent 
charter schools for the purpose of collaborating with community mental health 
agencies to provide mental health services to pupils.  The bill replaces the current 
grant program with new categorical aid for comprehensive school mental health 
services to school districts and independent charter schools.
Under the bill, beginning in the 2025 ]26 school year, DPI must annually 
reimburse a school board or the operator of an independent charter school for costs 
incurred for mental health services during in-school or out-of-school time, up to the 
greater of $100,000 or $100 per pupil who was enrolled in the school district or 
independent charter school in the previous school year.  If the amount appropriated 
for this purpose is insufficient, DPI must prorate the reimbursements.
Peer-to-peer suicide prevention grants
Under current law, DPI administers a competitive grant program to award 
grants to public, private, and tribal high schools for the purpose of supporting peer-
to-peer suicide prevention programs.  Under current law, the maximum annual 
peer-to-peer suicide prevention grant amount is $1,000.  The bill increases the 
maximum annual peer-to-peer suicide prevention grant amount to $6,000.
Mental health training programs
Under current law, DPI must establish a mental health training program 
under which it provides training to school district and independent charter school 
staff on three specific evidence-based strategies related to addressing mental 
health issues in schools.  The three specific evidence-based strategies are 1) the 
Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment program, 2) Trauma 
Sensitive Schools, and 3) Youth Mental Health First Aid.
The bill expands the mental health training program to include training on 
any evidence-based strategy related to addressing mental health issues and suicide 
prevention in schools and converts the list of evidence-based strategies under 
current law to a nonexclusive list of strategies.  Additionally, the bill requires that 
DPI provide the training to out-of-school-time program employees.
Aid for English language acquisition
The bill creates a new categorical aid for school districts and independent 
charter schools to offset the costs of educating limited-English proficient (LEP) 
pupils.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 29 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Under current law, a school board is required to provide a bilingual-bicultural 
education program to LEP pupils who attend a school in the school district if the 
school meets any of the following thresholds:
1. Within a language group, 10 or more LEP pupils are enrolled in 
kindergarten to grade 3.
2. Within a language group, 20 or more LEP pupils are enrolled in grades 4 to 
8.
3. Within a language group, 20 or more LEP pupils are enrolled in grades 9 to 
12.
All school boards are required to educate all LEP pupils, but only school 
boards that are required to provide bilingual-bicultural education programs are 
eligible under current law for categorical aid targeted toward educating LEP pupils.  
Under current law, in each school year, DPI distributes $250,000 among eligible 
school districts whose enrollments in the previous school year were at least 15 
percent LEP pupils, and DPI distributes the amount remaining in the 
appropriation account to eligible school districts on the basis of the school districts [ 
expenditures on the required bilingual-bicultural education programs during the 
prior school year.
Under the bill, beginning in the 2025 ]26 school year, DPI must annually pay 
each school district and each operator of an independent charter school an amount 
equal to $500 times the number of LEP pupils enrolled in the school district or 
attending the charter school in the previous school year.  This new categorical aid is 
in addition to aid already paid under current law and is not conditioned on whether 
the school board or independent charter school is required to provide a bilingual-
bicultural education program.
Early literacy summer reading programs
Current law requires DPI to establish a model policy for promoting third grade 
pupils to the fourth grade that includes various components, including a 
requirement to provide an intensive summer reading program to pupils who are 
promoted to the fourth grade, had a personal reading plan in the third grade, and 
did not complete the plan before being promoted to fourth grade.  Current law 
specifies that the model policy must require that the intensive summer reading 
program be provided until a pupil scores at grade level in reading on a summative 
assessment.  Current law also requires school boards, operators of independent 
charter schools, and private schools participating in a parental choice program to, 
by July 1, 2025, adopt a written policy for promoting third grade pupils to the fourth 
grade that includes the intensive summer reading program required to be in DPI [s 
model policy.
Beginning in the 2026 ]27 school year, the bill requires DPI to reimburse 
school boards and independent charter schools for providing intensive summer 
reading programs, as required under third grade promotion policies.
Financial literacy curriculum grants
The bill requires DPI to award grants to school boards and independent 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 30 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
charter schools for the purpose of developing, implementing, or improving financial 
literacy curricula.  The bill further requires DPI to prioritize grants that support 
innovative financial literacy curricula.  Current law requires school boards to adopt 
academic standards for financial literacy and incorporate financial literacy 
instruction into the curriculum in grades kindergarten to 12.
Computer science education grants
The bill requires DPI to annually award grants to school districts for the 
purpose of expanding computer science educational opportunities in all grade levels 
in the school district.
Aid for career and technical education
The bill creates a categorical aid for school districts and independent charter 
schools for the purpose of increasing high school career and technical education 
pathways in public high schools.  The bill defines a Xhigh school career and 
technical education pathway Y as a series of career and technical education 
opportunities that prepare a pupil for a postsecondary option in a specific career 
area.  Under the bill, DPI must pay each school district and independent charter 
school a proportional amount of the amount appropriated for this purpose.  The 
proportional amount is based on the number of pupils in the high school grades in 
that school district or independent charter school in the previous school year 
divided by the total number of pupils in the high school grades in all school districts 
and independent charter schools in the previous school year.
Water bottle filling station grants
The bill requires DPI to award grants to school districts and independent 
charter schools to modify water fountains to include water bottle filling stations 
that provide filtered drinking water.
Tribal language revitalization grants
Under current law, school boards, cooperative educational service agencies, 
and head start agencies are eligible for grants to support innovative, effective 
instruction in one or more American Indian languages.  The bill expands eligibility 
for these grants to include independent charter schools.
Grants to replace race-based nicknames, logos, mascots, or team names 
associated with American Indians
The bill authorizes DPI to award a grant to a school board that terminates the 
use of a race-based nickname, logo, mascot, or team name that is associated with a 
federally recognized American Indian tribe or American Indians, in general.  Under 
the bill, a school board is eligible for a grant regardless of whether or not the school 
board decides to terminate the use of a race-based nickname, logo, mascot, or team 
name voluntarily, in response to an objection to its use, or in compliance with an 
order issued by the Division of Hearings and Appeals.  The bill specifies that the 
amount of the grant may not exceed the greater of $50,000 or the actual cost 
incurred by the school board to replace the race-based nickname, logo, mascot, or 
team name.  Under the bill, these grants are funded from Indian gaming receipts.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 31 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
PRIMARY  AND SECONDARY  EDUCATION : CHOICE , CHARTER , AND OPEN  
ENROLLMENT
Parental choice program caps
The bill caps the total number of pupils who may participate in the Milwaukee 
Parental Choice Program, the Racine Parental Choice Program, or the statewide 
parental choice program (parental choice program) at the number of pupils who 
attended a private school under the parental choice program in the 2025 ]26 school 
year.  Under the bill, beginning in the 2026 ]27 school year, if the number of 
applications to participate in a parental choice program exceeds the program cap, 
DPI must determine which applications to accept on a random basis, subject to 
certain admission preferences that exist under current law.
Under current law, pupils may submit applications to attend a private school 
under the statewide parental choice program for the following school year from the 
first weekday in February to the third Thursday in April, and a private school that 
receives applications must, no later than the first weekday in May immediately 
following the application period, report the number of applicants to DPI so that DPI 
may determine whether a pupil participation limitation has been exceeded.  The bill 
provides that, beginning with applications for the 2026 ]27 school year, DPI must 
establish one or more application periods during which pupils may submit 
applications to attend a private school under the Milwaukee Parental Choice 
Program or Racine Parental Choice Program.  The bill provides that a private 
school that receives applications during an application period must, no later than 
10 days after the application period ends, report the number of applicants to DPI so 
that DPI may determine whether a program cap has been exceeded.  The bill does 
not change the application period for the statewide parental choice program and 
requires DPI to use the information required to be reported under current law to 
determine whether the program cap for the statewide parental choice program has 
been exceeded.
The bill also requires DPI to establish a waiting list for a parental choice 
program if the program cap for the parental choice program has been exceeded.
Special Needs Scholarship Program cap
Under current law, a child with a disability who meets certain eligibility 
criteria may receive a scholarship to attend a private school participating in the 
Special Needs Scholarship Program (SNSP).  The bill caps the total number of 
children who may receive an SNSP scholarship at the number of children who 
received an SNSP scholarship in the 2025 ]26 school year.  Under the bill, beginning 
in the 2026 ]27 school year, if the number of applications for SNSP scholarships 
exceeds the program cap, DPI must determine which applications to accept on a 
random basis, subject to certain admission preferences set forth in the bill.
Under current law, a child may apply for an SNSP scholarship at any time 
during a school year and may begin attending the school at any time during the 
school year.  The bill provides that, beginning with applications for the 2026 ]27 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 32 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
school year, children may submit applications for SNSP scholarships for the school 
year from the first weekday in February to the third Thursday in April of the prior 
school year, and a private school that receives applications for SNSP scholarships 
must, no later than the first weekday in May immediately following the application 
period, report the number of applicants to DPI so that DPI may determine whether 
the program cap has been exceeded.
The bill also requires DPI to establish a waiting list if the program cap for the 
SNSP has been exceeded.
Wisconsin parental choice program; pupil participation limit
Current law includes a limit on the percentage of pupils in each school district 
who may attend a private school under the statewide parental choice program.  The 
pupil participation limit started in the 2015 ]16 school year at 1 percent of a school 
district[s membership and increased gradually to 10 percent of a school district [s 
membership in the 2025 ]26 school year.  Under current law, the pupil participation 
limit sunsets after the 2025 ]26 school year.  The bill eliminates the sunset and 
continues the pupil participation limit at 10 percent of a school district [s 
membership.
Payment indexing: parental choice programs, SNSP, independent charter 
schools, full-time Open Enrollment Program, and whole grade sharing 
agreements
Under current law, the per pupil payment amounts under parental choice 
programs and the SNSP, the per pupil payment amount to independent charter 
schools, the transfer amounts under the full-time open enrollment program, and 
the required transfer amount for a child with a disability in a whole grade sharing 
agreement (collectively, Xper pupil payments Y) are adjusted annually.  The annual 
adjustment for per pupil payments is an amount equal to the sum of any per 
member revenue limit increase that applies to school districts in that school year 
and any per member increase in categorical aids between the current school year 
and the previous school year.  Under the bill, beginning in the 2025 ]26 school year, 
the annual adjustment for per pupil payments is the sum of the per member 
revenue limit increase that applies to school districts in that school year, if any, and 
the increase in the per member amount of general per pupil aid paid to school 
districts between the previous school year and the current school year, if any.
Per pupil payment and transfer amount based on actual costs; SNSP and 
full-time Open Enrollment
Under current law, the per pupil payment amount for a child participating in 
the SNSP and the transfer amount for a child with a disability in the full-time Open 
Enrollment Program (OEP) is one of the following:
1.  A per pupil amount set by law.
2.  An alternative amount based on the actual costs to educate the pupil in the 
previous school year, as reported by the private school or nonresident school 
district, whichever is applicable. For example, under this option, the amount paid to 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 33 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
a private school in the SNSP or nonresident school district in the 2024 ]25 school 
year is based on the actual costs to educate the pupil in the 2023 ]24 school year, as 
reported by the private school or nonresident school district.
The bill eliminates the alternative SNSP per pupil payment amount and OEP 
transfer amount based on the actual costs to educate the pupil and the processes for 
setting these alternative amounts.  Under the bill, the SNSP per pupil payment 
amount and the OEP transfer amount for children with disabilities is the same for 
all pupils and is set by law.  In the 2024 ]25 school year, the amount set by law is 
$15,409.
Teacher licensure in parental choice programs and in the SNSP
With certain exceptions, the bill requires that, beginning on July 1, 2028, 
teachers at private schools participating in a parental choice program or in the 
SNSP must hold a license or permit issued by DPI.  Under current law, teachers at 
choice schools must have at least a bachelor [s degree from a nationally or regionally 
accredited institution of higher education, but they are not required to be licensed 
by DPI.  There are no current law requirements regarding who may teach at SNSP 
schools.
The bill provides an exception for a teacher who teaches only courses in 
rabbinical studies.  In addition, the bill provides a grace period for a teacher who 
has been teaching for at least the five consecutive years immediately preceding July 
1, 2028, which allows the teacher to apply for a temporary, nonrenewable waiver of 
the licensure requirement.  An applicant for a waiver must submit a plan for 
becoming licensed as required under the bill.
SNSP; religious opt out
The bill provides that a private school participating in the SNSP must allow a 
child attending the private school under the SNSP to refrain from participating in 
any religious activity if the child [s parent submits to the child [s teacher or the 
private school [s principal a written request that the child be exempt from such 
activities.
SNSP; accreditation or participation in another choice program
The bill provides that, with certain exceptions explained below, a private 
school may participate in the SNSP only if 1) the private school is accredited by 
August 1 of the school year in which the private school participates or 2) the private 
school participates in a parental choice program.  Under current law, a private 
school may participate in the SNSP if the private school is accredited or if the 
private school [s educational program meets certain criteria.
The bill provides that, if a private school is participating in the SNSP in the 
2025-26 school year and is not accredited by August 1, 2025, the private school must 
1) obtain preaccreditation by August 1, 2026; 2) apply for accreditation by December 
31, 2026; and 3) obtain accreditation by December 31, 2029.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 34 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
PRIMARY  AND SECONDARY  EDUCATION : SCHOOL  OPERATIONS
Health emergencies in learning places grants
The bill requires school boards, independent charter schools, and private 
schools participating in a parental choice program or the SNSP (local educational 
agencies) to have 1) a cardiac emergency response plan for cardiac emergencies that 
occur on school property, 2) an adequate supply of opioid antagonists on site, and 3) 
a carbon monoxide detector in each room of a school that contains a fuel-burning, 
forced-air furnace or a boiler, or as otherwise required by DSPS.  The bill also 
requires DPI to provide aid to local educational agencies for the costs of complying 
with these requirements.
Beginning in the 2025 ]26 school year, the bill requires each local educational 
agency to have in effect a cardiac emergency response plan (CERP) for cardiac 
emergencies that occur on school property.  Under the bill, a CERP is a written 
document that establishes specific steps to reduce death from cardiac arrest in a 
specific setting.  Under the bill, a CERP must include various components, 
including a cardiac emergency response team; information on how the cardiac 
emergency response team is activated in the event of an emergency; and 
requirements for automated external defibrillator placement, maintenance, and 
training in usage, training in first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and 
drills to practice the CERP.
Under current law, school boards and governing bodies of private schools must 
supply a standard first aid kit for use in an emergency.  Under the bill, independent 
charter schools must also supply a standard first aid kit for use in an emergency.  
Current law also authorizes certain school personnel, including employees and 
volunteers of public and private schools, to administer an opioid antagonist to a 
person who appears to be undergoing an opioid-related drug overdose.  Most 
recently, 2023 Wisconsin Act 194 provided civil immunity to elementary and 
secondary schools, school personnel, and particular medical professionals who 
provide or administer an opioid antagonist.
Under the bill, each local educational agency must ensure that each school 
maintains a usable supply of an opioid antagonist on site, in a place that is 
accessible at all times.
Under current law, DPI must establish a model management plan for 
maintaining indoor environmental quality in public and private schools.  By no 
later than July 1, 2026, the bill requires DPI to include in that model plan that 
public and private schools must have a carbon monoxide detector in each room in a 
school that contains a fuel-burning, forced-air furnace or a boiler, and as otherwise 
required by DSPS.
Under current law, school boards and private schools participating in a 
parental choice program must have and implement a plan for maintaining indoor 
environmental quality in schools.  The bill extends this requirement to independent 
charter schools.  Additionally, the bill requires that, by no later than October 1, 
2026, each local educational agency include in its management plan for 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 35 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
maintaining indoor environmental quality the same carbon monoxide detector 
requirement that is included in DPI [s model plan.  Under the bill, each local 
educational agency must implement the carbon monoxide detector requirement by 
no later than July 1, 2027.  The bill also requires local educational agencies to 
reasonably maintain all carbon monoxide detectors as specified in the detectors [ 
instructions.  The requirements related to carbon monoxide detectors do not apply 
to a local educational agency that is a private school participating only in the SNSP.
Under current law generally, carbon monoxide detectors are required in 
dwellings with an attached garage, a fireplace, or a fuel-burning appliance.  Carbon 
monoxide detectors are also required in public buildings that are used for sleeping 
or lodging and contain a fuel-burning appliance, a fuel-burning forced-air furnace, 
or an attached garage.
Costs of placing school resource officers in MPS schools
Current law requires the school board of a first class city school 
districtcurrently only Milwaukee Public Schools (MPS)to ensure that at least 
25 school resource officers are present at schools within the school district during 
normal school hours and that school resource officers are available, as needed, 
during before-school and after-school care, extracurricular activities, and sporting 
events (SRO requirement).  Under current law, a school resource officer (SRO) is a 
law enforcement officer who is deployed in community-oriented policing and 
assigned by the law enforcement agency that employs him or her to work in a full-
time capacity in collaboration with a school district.  Current law also requires MPS 
and the City of Milwaukee to agree on how to apportion the costs of meeting the 
SRO requirement between the two entities.  Under the bill, MPS and the City of 
Milwaukee must apportion the costs of meeting the SRO requirement as follows:
1.  For school days, the greater of 25 percent of the costs or $400,000, as 
indexed to inflation, to MPS and the remainder to the City of Milwaukee.
2.  For nonschool days, 100 percent to the City of Milwaukee.
Under the bill, Xschool day Y means 1) a day on which school is actually taught 
and 2) a day on which school is not taught because school is closed due to inclement 
weather, parent-teacher conferences, an order of a local health officer or DHS, or a 
threat to the health or safety of pupils or school personnel.
Computer science course requirement
The bill requires school boards, independent charter schools, and private 
schools participating in a parental choice program to make available to pupils in 
grades 9 to 12 at least one computer science course, which must include concepts in 
computer programming or coding.
Participation in high school graduation ceremonies
The bill prohibits school boards, independent charter schools, and private 
schools participating in a parental choice program or the SNSP from excluding a 
pupil from a high school graduation ceremony due to the pupil [s or the pupil [s 
family[s failure to pay any outstanding fees or charges.  Under current law, pupil 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 36 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
participation in high school graduation ceremonies is determined under school 
board, charter school, or private school policies.
Access to period products in schools
The bill requires school boards and independent charter schools to provide 
period products to any pupil who needs them while at school, at no charge to the 
pupil.  In addition, the bill requires DPI to distribute aid for the provision of period 
products to certain school districts and independent charter schools.  Under the 
bill, a school district or independent charter school is eligible for aid if the school 
district or independent charter school had a greater percentage of economically 
disadvantaged pupils enrolled in or attending the school district or independent 
charter school than the statewide percentage of economically disadvantaged pupils 
in the previous school year.  Under the bill, DPI must distribute to each eligible 
school district and independent charter school the greater of $100 or an amount 
that is proportionate to the number of economically disadvantaged pupils enrolled 
in or attending the eligible school district or independent charter school in the 
previous school year compared to the total number of economically disadvantaged 
pupils enrolled in or attending eligible school districts or independent charter 
schools in the previous school year.  If the amount appropriated for this aid is 
insufficient to pay the full amount of aid, DPI must prorate the aid payments 
among the eligible school districts and independent charter schools.  The bill 
defines an Xeconomically disadvantaged pupil Y as a pupil who satisfies the federal 
income eligibility requirements for a free or reduced-price lunch.
PRIMARY  AND SECONDARY  EDUCATION : ADMINISTRATIVE  AND OTHER  FUNDING
Early literacy coaches
Under current law, the Office of Literacy in DPI must establish and supervise 
a literacy coaching program to improve literacy outcomes in this state. Specifically, 
the Office of Literacy, in consultation with cooperative educational service agencies, 
must contract for up to 64 full-time equivalent literacy coaches. Current law 
requires the Office of Literacy to assign one-half of the literacy coaches to schools 
based on pupil scores on the third grade reading assessment and one-half of the 
literacy coaches to schools that request early literacy support.  The latter half of the 
literacy coaches must be dispersed evenly among cooperative educational service 
agency regions.  In addition, current law prohibits the Office of Literacy from 
assigning more than a total of 10 literacy coaches to a first class city school district 
and more than a total of four literacy coaches to a school district that is not a first 
class city school district.
Under current law, the Office of Literacy and the literacy coaching program 
sunset on July 1, 2028.  The bill eliminates this sunset.  Beginning in the 2026 ]27 
school year, the bill increases the maximum number of full-time equivalent literacy 
coaches to 100, increases the maximum number of literacy coaches that may be 
assigned to a first class city school district to 16, and increases the maximum 
number of literacy coaches that may be assigned to a school district that is not a 
first class city school district to six.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 37 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Early literacy tutoring grants
The bill requires DPI to create a competitive grant program, under which it 
awards grants to community-based nonprofit organizations to provide literacy 
tutoring, including high-dosage literacy tutoring, to pupils who are in five-year-old 
kindergarten to third grade and do not yet read at grade-level.  The bill defines 
Xliteracy tutoring Y as tutoring that includes science-based early reading instruction 
and does not include three cueing.  High-dosage literacy tutoring is defined under 
the bill as literacy tutoring that is provided in a one-on-one or small group setting, 
at least three times per week for at least 30 minutes each session, by the same tutor 
who is professionally trained and receives ongoing training, that includes high-
quality instructional materials that align with classroom content, and that is held 
during school hours.
Early childhood special education; coaches
Under current law, school boards and operators of independent charter schools 
must identify, locate, and evaluate children with disabilities who are in need of 
special education and related services and make available a free appropriate public 
education to those children if they are at least three years old.  The process of 
identifying, locating, and evaluating children with disabilities who may need 
special education or related services is known as XChild Find. Y
The bill provides $600,000 in funding for DPI to contract with cooperative 
educational service agencies to employ regional child care collaboration coaches to 
promote Child Find to child care providers and provide training, technical 
assistance, and consultation to, and facilitate collaboration between, child care 
providers, operators of independent charter schools, and school boards for the 
purpose of providing special education and related services to children with 
disabilities.
Transferring Head Start state supplement to DCF
The bill transfers the Head Start state supplement from DPI to DCF.  The bill 
transfers from the state superintendent to the secretary of children and families the 
responsibilities of determining whether agencies are eligible for designation as 
Head Start agencies under the federal Head Start program to provide 
comprehensive health, educational, nutritional, social, and other services to 
economically disadvantaged children and their families, and of distributing federal 
Head Start funds to those eligible agencies.
Community-based 4K approach
Under current law, a school board may, but is not required to, provide four-
year-old kindergarten (4K).  Currently, many school boards provide 4K using a 
public-private partnership approach, often referred to as the community approach.  
The community approach includes contracts between school boards and 
community-based providers that define the roles and responsibilities of the parties 
related to the operation of a 4K program.
Under the bill, DPI must, in consultation with DCF, develop a model 
community-based approach 4K contract by January 1, 2026.  DPI must also, in 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 38 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
consultation with DCF, establish by rule a standard per pupil payment to be paid to 
the community-based provider under the model contract.
Career and technical student organizations; grants
Under current law, DPI must maintain a career and technical student 
organizations (CTSO) team that consists of six consultants, each of whom is 
assigned an educational area.  Specifically, DPI [s CTSO team must have a 
consultant in agriculture education, business education, technology education, 
family and consumer sciences education, marketing education, and health science 
education.  Under the bill, DPI must annually identify one CTSO for each of these 
educational areas and distribute state funding to each identified CTSO based on 
the number of pupils who were members of the CTSO in the previous school year.
Teacher apprenticeship pathway to licensure
The bill requires DPI to issue an initial license to teach to an individual who 
holds a bachelor [s degree,  successfully completes a teacher apprenticeship offered 
through DWD, and if the initial license is to teach in grades kindergarten to five, to 
teach in special education, or to teach as a reading teacher or specialist, pass an 
examination identical to the Foundations of Reading test, commonly called the 
FORT.  The bill also requires DPI to consult with DWD in the creation of DWD [s 
teacher apprenticeship program so that an individual who completes DWD [s 
teacher apprenticeship program will satisfy many of the requirements to obtain a 
license to teach from DPI, including the requirement that an applicant receive 
instruction in the study of minority group relations, that an applicant demonstrate 
competency related to various conflict resolution skills, and that an applicant for a 
license to teach reading or language arts to prekindergarten class to sixth grade 
successfully completes instruction in science-based early reading instruction.  See  
Employment .
Grow Your Own programs
The bill creates a new grant program administered by DPI and available to 
school districts and operators of independent charter schools to reimburse the cost 
of XGrow Your Own Y programs.  Under the bill, Grow Your Own programs include 
high school clubs that encourage careers in teaching, payment of costs associated 
with current staff acquiring education needed for licensure, support for career 
pathways using dual enrollment, support for partnerships focused on attracting or 
developing new teachers, or incentives for paraprofessionals to gain licensure.  The 
bill appropriates $5,000,000 in fiscal year 2026 ]27 for this purpose.
Educators rising; grant
The bill requires DPI to create a competitive request-for-proposal process to 
award a grant to an entity for the purpose of subsidizing cocurricular opportunities 
for public school pupils that encourage those pupils to pursue a career in teaching.  
Under the bill, to be eligible for this grant, an entity must demonstrate to DPI that 
it has successfully supported this type of cocurricular opportunities in public 
schools in this state.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 39 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Arts for All
Under current law, GPR is appropriated to DPI for Very Special Arts 
Wisconsin, Inc.  In 2019, Very Special Arts Wisconsin changed its name to Arts for 
All Wisconsin.  The bill updates the appropriation to reflect this name change.
Graduation Alliance
The bill requires the state superintendent of public instruction to annually 
distribute an amount appropriated to DPI to Graduation Alliance, Inc., to support 
pupils and their families through an academic coaching program known as Engage 
Wisconsin.  Currently, DPI partners with Graduation Alliance, Inc., to provide 
Engage Wisconsin to pupils and their families.
Mentor Greater Milwaukee, Inc.
The bill requires DPI to award grants to Mentor Greater Milwaukee, Inc., to 
expand access to quality youth mentoring in Milwaukee County.
The Literacy Lab
The bill requires the state superintendent of public instruction to annually 
distribute an amount appropriated to DPI to The Literacy Lab to provide an 
evidence-based literacy intervention program in public schools located in 
Milwaukee and Racine.
Grants for information technology education
The bill makes several changes to the information technology education grant 
program.  Under current law, DPI must develop a competitive request-for-proposal 
process to award a grant to an entity to provide information technology education 
opportunities to public school pupils in grades 6 to 12, technical college district 
students, and patrons of public libraries.  Currently, to be eligible for the grant, an 
entity must 1) demonstrate that it has successfully offered an information 
technology instructional program in schools in Wisconsin; 2) develop an 
instructional program that includes eight different components specified under 
current law; and 3) ensure that the instructional program will be operated in 225 
sites, including 16 public libraries.  In addition, under current law, DPI must give 
preference in awarding the grant to an entity that demonstrates that it has 
successfully provided high-quality information technology instructional 
programming and educational opportunities to pupils enrolled in or attending 
schools in Wisconsin.
The bill provides that DPI may award the information technology education 
grants to multiple entities.  Under the bill, grants do not need to be awarded 
through a request-for-proposal process, and the grants are for the provision of 
certification opportunities in addition to information technology education.  The bill 
modifies the eligibility criteria for the grants to require grant recipients to develop 
an instructional program that includes at least one of the eight components 
specified under current law and to maximize the number of sites at which the 
instructional program will be operated.  In addition to the current law preference 
requirements, the bill requires DPI to give preference in awarding grants to entities 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 40 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
that will develop an instructional program that includes more than one of the eight 
components specified under current law.
Student teacher stipends
The bill provides stipends, through DPI, to student teachers who are 
completing a teacher preparatory program that is approved by the superintendent 
of public instruction.  The stipends are $2,500 per student teacher per semester, 
and begin in the 2026 ]27 school year.  Receipt of a stipend under the bill does not 
preclude an individual from receiving a payment under the Wisconsin Teacher 
Improvement Program, which currently provides stipends to prospective teachers 
in one-semester internships.
Cooperating teacher stipends
The bill provides stipends, through DPI, to teachers who are overseeing a 
student teacher in their classrooms.  The stipends are in the amount of $1,000 per 
teacher per semester and begin in the 2026 ]27 school year.
Fees for licensure of school and public library personnel; appropriation 
changes
Under current law, 90 percent of the fees collected by DPI for licensure of 
school and public library personnel and for school districts [ participation in DPI [s 
teacher improvement program are credited to an annual sum certain appropriation.  
The remaining 10 percent of these fees are deposited into the general fund under 
current law.  The bill changes this annual sum certain appropriation to a 
continuing appropriation and requires that 100 percent of the total fees collected by 
DPI be credited to the appropriation.  An annual sum certain appropriation is 
expendable only up to the amount shown in the schedule and only for the fiscal year 
for which it is made. A continuing appropriation is expendable until fully depleted 
or repealed.
Under current law and the bill, the purposes of the appropriation are for 1) 
DPI[s administrative costs related to licensure of school and public library 
personnel; 2) if DPI exercises its authority to provide information and analysis of 
the professional school personnel supply in this state, the costs of providing that 
information and analysis; and 3) DPI [s teacher improvement program.
GED test fee payments
The bill requires DPI to pay the testing service fee for an eligible individual 
who takes a content area test given under the general educational development 
(GED) test.  The GED test consists of four separate content area tests that cover 
mathematical reasoning and reasoning through language arts, social studies, and 
science.  Under the bill, DPI will pay for an eligible individual to take all four 
content area tests once in each calendar year.
In order to be eligible for the payment, an individual must satisfy DPI [s 
requirements to receive a Certificate of General Educational Development or a 
High School Equivalency Diploma.  Among other things, DPI requires that the 
individual meet certain residency and minimum age requirements and attend a 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 41 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
counseling session.  The individual also must obtain a passing score on a GED 
practice test for the content area (commonly called a GED Ready practice test).
Farm to school program
The bill provides GPR to DPI for the purpose of providing matching funds for 
grants from the federal government for the farm to school program.  The farm to 
school program promotes the use of locally and regionally grown foods in schools.
Information technology systems; modernization expenses
The bill appropriates GPR to DPI for the purpose of modernizing information 
systems used by DPI.
HIGHER  EDUCATION
Administrative attachment of HEAB and DLAB to DOA
Under current law, the HEAB is an independent agency in the executive 
branch of state government.  HEAB administers most of the state [s higher 
education financial aid programs.
The bill attaches HEAB to DOA for administrative purposes.  Under current 
law, a board that is attached to another agency for administrative purposes is a 
distinct unit of that agency and exercises its powers and duties independently of 
that agency, but performs budgeting, program coordination, and related 
management functions under the direction and supervision of that agency.
Under current law, the Distance Learning Authorization Board (DLAB) is 
administratively attached to HEAB.  DLAB administers the state [s reciprocity 
agreement governing authorization and oversight of higher education institutions 
that provide distance education to out-of-state students.
The bill attaches DLAB for administrative purposes to DOA instead of HEAB.
Nonresident tuition exemption for undocumented individuals and certain 
tribal members enrolled in the UW System or a technical college
The bill creates a nonresident tuition exemptions for certain UW System and 
technical college students.
Current law allows the Board of Regents of the UW System to charge different 
tuition rates to resident and nonresident students.  A person generally must be a 
resident of this state for at least 12 months prior to registering at a UW System 
institution in order to be exempt from paying nonresident tuition.  However, current 
law also includes nonresident tuition exemptions, under which certain nonresident 
students pay resident tuition rates.
Also under current law, the TCS Board establishes program fees that 
technical college districts must charge students.  With exceptions, the fees for 
nonresidents are 150 percent of the fees for residents.  The TCS Board must 
establish procedures to determine the residence of students attending technical 
colleges, but current law specifies that certain students must be considered 
residents of this state.
The bill creates an exemption from nonresident tuition for an individual who 
is not a citizen of the United States and who 1) graduated from a Wisconsin high 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 42 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
school or received a declaration of equivalency of high school graduation from 
Wisconsin; 2) was continuously present in Wisconsin for at least three years 
following the first day of attending a Wisconsin high school or immediately 
preceding receipt of a declaration of equivalency of high school graduation; and 3) 
enrolls in a UW System institution and provides the institution with proof stating 
that he or she has filed or will file an application for lawful permanent resident 
status with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services as soon as the 
individual is eligible to do so.  The bill also provides that such an individual is 
considered a resident of this state for purposes of admission to and payment of fees 
at a technical college.
The bill also creates a nonresident tuition exemption for certain tribal 
members.  Under the bill, a student enrolled in a UW System institution or 
technical college qualifies for resident tuition or fee rates if all of the following 
apply:
1.  The student is a member of a federally recognized American Indian tribe or 
band in Wisconsin or is a member of a federally recognized tribe in Minnesota, 
Illinois, Iowa, or Michigan.
2.  The student has resided in Wisconsin, Minnesota, Illinois, Iowa, or 
Michigan, or in any combination of these states, for at least 12 months prior to 
enrolling in a UW System institution or technical college.
Tuition and fee remission for certain tribal members and student teachers 
enrolled in the UW System or a technical college
The bill grants full remission of tuition and fees for certain tribal members 
who are UW System or technical college students.  Under the bill, a student is 
exempt from tuition and segregated fees at a UW System institution and from 
tuition and incidental fees at a technical college if the student is a resident of this 
state and an enrolled member of a federally recognized American Indian tribe in 
this state.  The student is eligible for the remission for 128 credits or eight 
semesters, whichever is longer, but only if the student maintains a cumulative 
grade point average of at least 2.0.
The bill also grants full remission of tuition for student teachers enrolled in 
the UW System or a technical college during their semester of student teaching.  
The remission applies for a student who is a resident of this state and is 
participating in the student teaching component of an educator preparatory 
program approved by DPI.
Tuition grant program for national guard members 
The bill also makes changes to DMA [s tuition grant program for national 
guard members.  See Military Affairs .
Expansion of the nurse educator financial assistance program to allied 
health, behavioral health, and dentistry professions
Under current law, HEAB administers a nurse educator program that 
provides 1) fellowships to students who enroll in certain postgraduate nursing 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 43 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
degree programs at institutions of higher education, 2) postdoctoral fellowships to 
recruit faculty for nursing programs at institutions of higher education, and 3) 
educational loan repayment assistance to recruit and retain faculty for nursing 
programs in institutions of higher education.  Individuals who receive financial 
assistance under the program must make a commitment to teach for at least three 
consecutive years in a nursing program at an institution of higher education.
The bill expands the program to provide the same financial assistance and 
teaching commitment requirement to certain individuals in allied health, 
behavioral health, and dentistry professions, as defined in the bill.
Health care provider loan assistance program
The bill makes five new categories of health care providers eligible for the 
health care provider loan assistance (HCPLA) program and provides additional 
funding for loans to these health care providers.
Under current law, the Board of Regents of the UW System administers the 
HCPLA program under which it may repay, on behalf of a health care provider, up 
to $25,000 in loans for education related to the health care provider [s field of 
practice.  The repayment occurs over three years, with 40 percent of the loan or 
$10,000, whichever is less, repaid in each of the first two years of participation in 
the program and the final 20 percent or $5,000, whichever is less, repaid in the 
third year.  A health care provider is defined as a dental hygienist, dental therapist, 
physician assistant, nurse-midwife, or nurse practitioner.  The Board of Regents 
must enter into a written agreement with the health care provider in which the 
health care provider agrees to practice at least 32 clinic hours per week for three 
years in one or more eligible practice areas in this state or in a rural area.  An 
Xeligible practice area Y is defined as a free or charitable clinic, a primary care 
shortage area, a mental health shortage area, an American Indian reservation or 
trust lands of an American Indian tribe, or, for a dental hygienist, a dental health 
shortage area or a free or charitable clinic.  Money for loan repayments is derived 
from several sources, and loan repayments are subject to availability of funds.  If 
insufficient funds are available to repay the loans of all eligible applicants, the 
Board of Regents must establish priorities among the eligible applicants based on 
specified considerations, including factors related to the degree of the health care 
need and shortage in the area.  However, some funding for loan repayments is 
available only for health care providers who practice in rural areas.
The bill adds medical assistants, dental assistants, dental auxiliaries, 
behavioral health providers, and substance abuse treatment providers to the health 
care providers who are eligible for loan repayment under the HCPLA program.  
These health care providers are eligible under the current terms of the program, 
except medical assistants.  Medical assistants are eligible for loan repayment of up 
to $12,500 in total, with repayments of 40 percent of the loan or $5,000, whichever 
is less, in each of the first two years and 20 percent or $2,500, whichever is less, in 
the third year.  For purposes of an eligible practice area, dental assistants, dental 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 44 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
auxiliaries, and dental therapists are treated similarly to the way dental hygienists 
are treated under current law.
Expanding the rural dentistry scholarship program
Under current law, HEAB in consultation with DHS administers a 
scholarship program for students enrolled in the Marquette University School of 
Dentistry (MUSD) who agree to practice dentistry in a dental health shortage area 
for 18 months for each annual scholarship received.  A Xdental health shortage 
areaY is an area that is federally designated as having a shortage of dental 
professionals, not including Brown, Dane, Kenosha, Milwaukee, and Waukesha 
Counties.  From the program, HEAB may award to no more than 15 MUSD 
students an annual scholarship of $30,000 per year for up to four years.  A student 
who fails to meet their obligation to practice in a dental health shortage area for the 
requisite period must repay the amount of scholarship received.
The bill expands the scholarship program to include dental general practice 
residents as possible recipients of the scholarship, in addition to any student 
enrolled in the MUSD.
Parkinson [s disease registry
The bill directs the Population Health Institute (PHI), or its successor, at the 
UW-Madison School of Medicine and Public Health to establish and maintain a 
Parkinson [s disease registry and to collect data on the incidence and prevalence of 
Parkinson [s disease and parkinsonisms in this state.  The bill defines 
Xparkinsonism Y as a condition that is similar or related to Parkinson [s disease.
In addition, under the bill, if a health care provider treats or diagnoses a 
patient with Parkinson [s disease or a parkinsonism, that health care provider or 
the health care facility that employs or contracts with the health care provider must 
report information about the patient [s Parkinson [s disease or parkinsonism to PHI 
for purposes of the Parkinson [s disease registry.  If a patient declines to participate 
in the Parkinson [s disease registry, the health care provider or health care facility 
must report only the incident of the patient [s Parkinson [s disease or parkinsonism.
The bill directs PHI to create a website for the Parkinson [s disease registry 
that includes annual reports on the incidence and prevalence of Parkinson [s disease 
in this state.  The bill also authorizes UW-Madison to enter into agreements in 
order to furnish data from the Parkinson [s disease registry to another state [s 
Parkinson [s disease registry, a federal Parkinson [s disease control agency, a local 
health officer, or a researcher who proposes to conduct research on Parkinson [s 
disease, subject to certain confidentiality requirements.  In addition, the bill 
requires the UW System to allocate from its general program operations 
appropriation $3,900,000 in fiscal year 2025 ]26 and $2,400,000 in fiscal year 
2026]27 to establish the statewide Parkinson [s disease registry.
UW System funding allocations and grant to the Institute for Healthy Aging
Under current law, most GPR appropriated to the UW System is appropriated 
through a single general program operations appropriation, a biennial 
appropriation sometimes referred to as the UW block grant appropriation.  In the 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 45 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
2023]25 fiscal biennium, more than a billion dollars was appropriated through this 
appropriation in each year of the fiscal biennium.
The bill requires the UW System to allocate from this appropriation specified 
amounts for particular purposes in the 2025 ]27 fiscal biennium.  The total amount 
of these required allocations is approximately $8.6 million in fiscal year 2025 ]26 
and approximately $7.5 million in fiscal year 2026 ]27, and the purposes include the 
following: increasing assistance to students who are veterans and military 
personnel; extending eligibility for the Health Care Provider Loan Assistance 
Program to new categories of health care providers; establishing or continuing 
foster youth programming for eligible students; funding UW-Madison [s UniverCity 
Alliance program; supporting journalism programs and fellowships; and funding 
education, training, research, and technical assistance to support small businesses, 
economic development, and entrepreneurial activity.
The bill also requires the UW System to award a grant from this 
appropriation, in the amount of $450,000 in each fiscal year of the 2025 ]27 fiscal 
biennium, to the Institute for Healthy Aging to support programs in fall prevention 
and recovery training.
UW Missing-in-Action Recovery and Identification Project
Under the bill, the Board of Regents of the UW System must provide funding 
to the UW Missing-in-Action Recovery and Identification Project (MIA Recovery 
Project) for missions to recover and identify Wisconsin veterans who are missing in 
action.  At the conclusion of the mission for which funding is provided, the MIA 
Recovery Project must submit to the Board of Regents, JCF, each legislative 
standing committee dealing with veterans matters, the governor, DVA, and DMA a 
report on the mission [s findings and an accounting of expenditures for the mission.  
The bill allocates $500,000 in each year of the 2025 ]27 fiscal biennium for the MIA 
Recovery Project. 
Grants to technical college district boards for adoption of artificial 
intelligence
Under current law, the TCS Board may award grants to technical college 
district boards in a variety of contexts, including to provide basic skills instruction 
in jails and prisons, to expand health care programs, and for the development of 
apprenticeship criteria.  The bill allows the TCS Board to award grants to technical 
college district boards to support the district boards with the adoption and use of 
artificial intelligence in areas including the following: 1) educator recruitment, 
retention, and upskilling; 2) curriculum and resource development to meet 
employer demand; 3) stackable credential development; and 4) infrastructure 
development.
GENERAL  EDUCATION  AND CULTURAL  AGENCIES
Library intern stipend payments
The bill requires the Division for Libraries and Technology in DPI to provide 
stipend payments to students who are enrolled in a library and information 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 46 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
sciences master [s degree program and are placed as an intern in a public library or 
school library.  The stipend payments are $2,500 per student per semester, and 
begin in the 2026 ]27 school year.
Funding for the emergency weather warning system
Under current law, the Educational Communications Board is required to 
operate an emergency weather warning system, the operation of which is funded 
from moneys received from DOA for the provision of state telecommunications to 
state agencies.  The bill changes the funding source for the operation of the 
emergency weather warning system to GPR.
Operational funding for the Northern Great Lakes Center
The bill expands a segregated-funds appropriation to SHS to allow 
expenditures for operational support of the Northern Great Lakes Center.
Security at museum located on N. Carroll Street in Madison
Current law requires SHS to have responsibility for security at the Wisconsin 
Historical Museum located at 30 N. Carroll Street in Madison.  The Wisconsin 
Historical Museum located at 30 N. Carroll Street has been demolished.  The bill 
requires SHS to have responsibility for security at any subsequent museum located 
on N. Carroll Street.
ELECTIONS
Automatic voter registration
The bill requires the Elections Commission to use all feasible means to 
facilitate the registration of all individuals eligible to vote in this state and to 
maintain the registration of all registered voters for so long as they remain eligible.  
Under the bill, the commission must attempt to facilitate the initial registration of 
all eligible individuals as soon as practicable.  To facilitate that initial registration, 
the bill directs the commission and DOT to enter into an agreement so that DOT 
may transfer specified personally identifying information in DOT [s records to the 
commission.  The bill requires the commission to maintain the confidentiality of 
any information it obtains under the agreement and allows a driver [s license or 
identification card applicant to opt out of DOT [s transfer of this information to the 
commission.
Once the commission obtains all the information required under current law 
to complete an eligible individual [s registration, the commission adds the 
individual [s name to the statewide registration list.  The bill also permits an 
individual whose name is added to the registration list or who wishes to 
permanently exclude his or her name from the list to file a request to have his or her 
name deleted or excluded from the list or to revoke a deletion or exclusion request 
previously made.  In addition, the bill directs the commission to notify an individual 
by first class postcard whenever the commission removes his or her name from the 
registration list or changes his or her status on the list from eligible to ineligible.
The bill also directs the commission to report to the legislature and the 
governor, no later than July 1, 2027, its progress in initially registering eligible 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 47 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
individuals under the bill.  The report must contain an assessment of the feasibility 
and desirability of integration of registration information with information 
maintained by DHS, DCF, DWD, DOR, DSPS, and DNR; the UW System; and the 
TCS Board, as well as with the technical colleges in each technical college district.
Under current law, an eligible individual with a current and valid driver [s 
license or identification card issued by DOT may register to vote electronically on a 
secure website maintained by the commission.  To register electronically under 
current law, an eligible individual must also authorize DOT to forward a copy of his 
or her electronic signature to the commission.  The authorization affirms that all 
information provided by the individual is correct and has the same effect as a 
written signature on a paper copy of the registration form.  Finally, current law 
requires the commission and DOT to enter into an agreement that permits the 
commission to verify the necessary registration information instantly by accessing 
DOT[s electronic files.
Early canvassing of absentee ballots
Under current law, absentee ballots may not be canvassed until election day.  
The bill authorizes a municipal clerk or municipal board of election commissioners 
to begin the canvassing of absentee ballots on the day before an election, subject to 
the following requirements:
1.  The municipality must use automatic tabulating equipment to process 
absentee ballots.
2.  Prior to the early canvassing of absentee ballots, the municipal clerk or 
municipal board of election commissioners must notify the Elections Commission in 
writing and must consult with the Elections Commission concerning 
administration of early canvassing of absentee ballots.
3.  Early canvassing of absentee ballots under the bill may be conducted only 
between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. on the day before the election, and ballots may not be 
tallied until after polls close on election day.
4.  Members of the public must have the same right of access to a place where 
absentee ballots are being canvassed early as is provided under current law for 
canvassing absentee ballots on election day.
5.  When not in use, automatic tabulating equipment used for canvassing 
absentee ballots and the areas where the programmed media and the absentee 
ballots are housed must be secured with tamper-evident security seals in a double-
lock location such as a locked cabinet inside a locked office.
6.  Subject to criminal penalty, no person may act in any manner that would 
give him or her the ability to know or to provide information on the accumulating or 
final results from the ballots canvassed early under the bill before the close of the 
polls on election day.
7.  Certain notices must be provided before each election at which the 
municipality intends to canvass absentee ballots on the day before the election.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 48 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Residency requirement for voting
Under current law, with limited exceptions, an otherwise eligible voter must 
be a resident of Wisconsin and of the municipality and ward, if any, where the voter 
is voting for 28 days before an election in order to vote in the election in that 
municipality and ward.  The bill shortens that residency requirement from 28 days 
to 10 days.
Voting absentee in person
Current law allows an individual to complete an absentee ballot in person no 
earlier than 14 days preceding the election and no later than the Sunday preceding 
the election.  The bill eliminates the 14-day restriction on how soon a person may 
complete an absentee ballot in person.
Voter bill of rights
The bill creates a voter bill of rights that municipal clerks and boards of 
election commissioners must post at each polling place.  The bill of rights informs 
voters that they have the right to do all of the following:
1.  Vote if registered and eligible to vote.
2.  Inspect a sample ballot before voting.
3.  Cast a ballot if in line when the polling place closes or, if voting by in-person 
absentee ballot on the last day for which such voting is allowed, when the municipal 
clerk[s office closes.
4.  Cast a secret ballot.
5.  Get help casting a ballot if disabled.
6.  Get help voting in a language other than English as provided by law.
7.  Get a new ballot, up to three ballots in all, if the voter makes a mistake on 
the ballot.
8.  Cast a provisional ballot as provided by law.
9.  Have the voter [s ballot counted accurately.
10.  Vote free from coercion or intimidation.
11.  Report any illegal or fraudulent election activity.
Office of Election Transparency and Compliance
The bill creates under the Elections Commission the Office of Election 
Transparency and Compliance.  The office is under the direction and supervision of 
a director who must be a policy initiatives advisor appointed in the classified 
service by the Elections Commission administrator.
The bill requires the office, as directed by the commission by resolution, to 
perform research and assist the commission [s legal staff in presenting information 
to the members of the commission concerning sworn complaints of election law 
violations, including allegations that a person provided false or misleading 
information to an election official during the registration or voting process, and 
sworn complaints alleging noncompliance with election laws and processes by 
election officials.  The bill further requires the office to provide assistance and 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 49 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
research to the commission with respect to the following, as directed by the 
commission administrator:
1.  Procedures at polling places.
2.  Election processes.
3.  Election systems and equipment, including with respect to accessibility 
requirements for individuals with disabilities.
4.  Responding to public records requests.
5.  Responding to legislative inquiries and requests for assistance.
6.  Responding to inquiries from the public.
Voter registration in high schools
Prior to 2011 Wisconsin Act 240, state law required that all public high schools 
be used for voter registration for enrolled students and members of the high school 
staff.  Prior law also authorized voter registration to take place at a private high 
school or a tribal school that operates high school grades if requested by the 
principal.  The bill reinstates those provisions.
Under the bill, the municipal clerk must notify the school board of each school 
district in which the municipality is located that high schools will be used for voter 
registration.  The school board and the clerk must then appoint at least one 
qualified voter at each high school to be a special school registration deputy.  The 
bill allows students and staff to register at the school on any day that classes are 
regularly held.  The deputies promptly forward the registration forms to the clerk 
and the clerk adds qualified voters to the registration list.  The clerk may reject a 
registration form, but the clerk must notify the registrant and inform the registrant 
of the reason for being rejected.  Under the bill, a form completed by an individual 
who will be 18 years of age before the next election and who is otherwise qualified to 
vote must be filed in such a way that the individual is automatically registered to 
vote when the individual is 18.
Finally, the bill allows a principal of a private high school or tribal school that 
operates high school grades to request that the municipal clerk appoint a qualified 
voter at the school to be a special school registration deputy.  Under the bill, the 
clerk must appoint a special school registration deputy if the clerk determines that 
the private high school or tribal school has a substantial number of students 
residing in the municipality.
Proof of identification for voting
Current law allows an individual to use as voter identification an unexpired 
identification card issued by a technical college, college, or university in this state if 
the card meets certain criteria.  The card must have an expiration date that is no 
later than two years after the date it was issued, and the individual must establish 
proof of enrollment.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit held that the 
requirement to present both an unexpired identification card and proof of 
enrollment had no rational basis and was therefore unconstitutional.  See Luft v. 
Evers , 963 F.3d 665 (2020).  The bill allows a student to use an expired student 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 50 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
identification card under certain circumstances.  Under the bill, a student does not 
need to present proof of enrollment if using an unexpired identification card but 
must provide proof of enrollment if using an expired identification card.  In 
addition, the bill requires each technical college in this state and each UW System 
institution to issue student identification cards that meet the criteria to be used as 
voter identification.
Current law also allows an individual to use as voter identification an 
identification card issued by DOT.  DOT may issue a receipt as a temporary 
identification card to use for voting and other purposes to an individual who is 
waiting for the permanent card.  The receipt expires in 60 days.  The bill extends 
the expiration date to 180 days.
Petitions to complete a partial recount
Under current law, any candidate voted for at an election who is an aggrieved 
party may petition for a full or partial recount of the votes cast in the jurisdiction or 
district of the office that the candidate seeks.  Current law defines an Xaggrieved 
partyY as any of the following:
1.  For an election at which 4,000 or fewer votes are cast for the office that the 
candidate seeks, a candidate who trails the leading candidate by no more than 40 
votes.
2.  For an election at which more than 4,000 votes are cast for the office that 
the candidate seeks, a candidate who trails the leading candidate by no more than 
1 percent of the total votes cast for that office.
If a candidate who is an aggrieved party petitions for a partial recount, 
current law provides that the opposing candidate may file a petition for an 
additional partial or a full recount of the wards or municipalities not subject to the 
initial partial recount no later than 5 p.m. two days after the initial partial recount 
is completed.
Under the bill, a candidate must be an aggrieved party in order to petition for 
an additional partial or a full recount after an initial partial recount is completed.  
Therefore, if, after an initial partial recount, the opposing candidate becomes an 
aggrieved partyi.e., the leading candidate becomes the trailing candidatethat 
opposing candidate may file a petition for an additional partial or a full recount.  
However, the bill excludes from that authorization to petition for an additional 
partial or full recount the candidate who filed the petition for the initial partial 
recount.
Special elections to fill vacancies in the office of U.S. senator and 
representative in congress
Under current law, a vacancy in the office of U.S. senator or representative in 
congress occurring prior to the second Tuesday in April in the year of the general 
election must be filled at a special primary and special election.  A vacancy 
occurring in one of these offices between the second Tuesday in April and the 
second Tuesday in May in the year of the general election is filled at the partisan 
primary and general election.
Current law provides that a special primary be held four weeks before the day 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 51 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
of the special election.  However, if the election is held on the same day as the spring 
election, the special primary is held concurrently with the spring primary.  Under 
current law, with regard to an election for a national office, the period between a 
special primary and special election or between the spring primary or spring 
election does not provide sufficient time to canvass and certify the primary results 
and prepare ballots to send to overseas voters as required by federal law.
Under the bill, a vacancy in the office of U.S. senator or representative in 
congress is filled in the following manner:
1.  At a special election to be held on the third Tuesday in May following the 
first day of the vacancy with a special primary to be held concurrently with the 
spring primary on the third Tuesday in February.
2.  At a special election to be held on the second Tuesday in August following 
the first day of the vacancy with a special primary to be held on the third Tuesday 
in May.
3.  At a special election to be held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in 
November following the first day of the vacancy with a special primary to be held on 
the second Tuesday in August.
However, under the bill, a November special election is not held in any year in 
which the general election is held for that office; instead, the vacancy is filled at the 
partisan primary and general election.
Election administration grants
The bill requires the Elections Commission to award grants to cities, villages, 
and towns for election administration expenses.  The bill additionally requires the 
commission to award up to $400,000 in grants to cities, villages, towns, and 
counties in the 2025 ]26 fiscal year for the purchase of election supplies and 
equipment, including electronic poll books.
Reimbursement of counties and municipalities for certain election costs
The bill requires the Elections Commission to reimburse counties and 
municipalities for certain costs incurred in the administration of special primaries 
and special elections for state or national office.  A cost is eligible for reimbursement 
only if certain conditions are met, including that the commission determines the 
cost is reasonable and the rate paid by the county or municipality for the cost does 
not exceed the rate customarily paid for similar costs at a primary or election that is 
not a special primary or election.  Under the bill, only the following costs may be 
reimbursed:
1.  Rental payments for polling places.
2.  Election day wages paid to election officials working at the polls.
3.  Costs for the publication of required election notices.
4.  Printing and postage costs for absentee ballots and envelopes.
5.  Costs for the design and printing of ballots and poll books.
6.  Purchase of ballot bags or containers, including ties or seals for chain of 
custody purposes.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 52 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
7.  Costs to program electronic voting machines.
8.  Purchase of memory devices for electronic voting machines.
9.  Wages paid to conduct a county canvass.
10.  Data entry costs for the statewide voter registration system.
Posting sample ballots in non-English languages
Under the bill, if any jurisdiction in the state provides voting materials in one 
or more languages other than English, the Elections Commission must post on its 
website the sample ballots for that jurisdiction in each such language.
Appropriation for clerk training
Current law appropriates money annually from the general fund to the 
Elections Commission for training county and municipal clerks concerning voter 
identification requirements. The bill expands this appropriation to authorize 
expenditures for training county and municipal clerks for the administration of 
elections generally.
Recount fees
Current law requires the Elections Commission to reimburse the counties for 
the actual costs of conducting a recount.  The reimbursement comes from the fees 
that the commission collects from the person that filed the recount petition.  The 
bill changes the appropriation for reimbursing the counties from an annual 
appropriation to a continuing appropriation.
EMPLOYMENT
EMPLOYMENT  REGULATION
Collective bargaining for state and local employees; employee rights
Under current law, state and local governments are prohibited from 
collectively bargaining with employees except as expressly provided in the statutes.  
Current law allows certain protective occupation participants under the Wisconsin 
Retirement System, known as public safety employees, and certain municipal 
transit employees to collectively bargain over wages, hours, and conditions of 
employment.  Under current law, other state and municipal employees may 
collectively bargain only over a percentage increase in base wages that does not 
exceed the percentage increase in the consumer price index.  In addition, under 
current law, the Employment Relations Commission (ERC) assigns employees to 
collective bargaining units, but current law requires that public safety employees 
and municipal transit employees be placed in separate collective bargaining units 
that do not contain other state or municipal employees.
The bill adds frontline workers to the groups that may collectively bargain 
over wages, hours, and conditions of employment.  In the bill, Xfrontline workers Y 
are state or municipal employees with regular job duties that include interacting 
with members of the public or with large populations of people or that directly 
involve the maintenance of public works.  Under the bill, the ERC determines which 
state and municipal employees meet the criteria.  Also, the bill allows the ERC to 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 53 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
place in the same collective bargaining unit both frontline workers and employees 
who are not frontline workers.  If the ERC places employees of both types in a 
collective bargaining unit, the entire collective bargaining unit is treated as if all 
members are frontline workers and all members may collectively bargain over 
wages, hours, and conditions of employment.
Under current law, state or municipal employees in a collective bargaining 
unit elect their representative.  The representative for a unit containing public 
safety employees or transit employees requires the support of the majority of the 
employees who are voting in the election, and the representative for a unit 
containing other employees requires the support of the majority of all of the 
employees who are in the collective bargaining unit.  Under the bill, the 
representative for any collective bargaining unit containing any state or municipal 
employees requires the support of the majority of the employees who are voting in 
the election regardless of the number of employees who are in the collective 
bargaining unit.
Under current law, the ERC must conduct an annual election to certify each 
representative of a collective bargaining unit representing state or municipal 
employees who are not public safety employees or transit employees.  At the 
election, if a representative fails to receive at least 51 percent of the votes of all of 
the members of the collective bargaining unit, the representative is decertified and 
the employees are unrepresented.  The bill eliminates this annual recertification 
process.
The bill requires state and municipal employers to consult about wages, hours, 
and conditions of employment with their employees who are not public safety 
employees, transit employees, or frontline workers.  The employers must consult 
either when policy changes that affect wages, hours, or conditions are proposed or 
implemented or, in the absence of policy changes, at least quarterly.
The bill adds that employees of authorities, such as the UW Hospitals and 
Clinics Authority, WHEDA, and WEDC, may collectively bargain as state 
employees, and adds faculty and academic staff employed by the UW System, 
including those assigned to UW-Madison, to the state employees who may 
collectively bargain.
Eliminating the right-to-work law
The current right-to-work law prohibits a person from requiring, as a 
condition of obtaining or continuing employment, an individual to refrain or resign 
from membership in a labor organization, to become or remain a member of a labor 
organization, to pay dues or other charges to a labor organization, or to pay any 
other person an amount that is in place of dues or charges required of members of a 
labor organization.  The bill eliminates these prohibitions and the associated 
misdemeanor offense for violating the right-to-work law.
The bill explicitly provides that, when an all-union agreement is in effect, it is 
not an unfair labor practice to encourage or discourage membership in a labor 
organization or to deduct labor organization dues or assessments from an 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 54 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
employee [s earnings.  The bill sets conditions under which an employer may enter 
into an all-union agreement.  The bill also sets conditions for the continuation or 
termination of all-union agreements, including that, if the Wisconsin Employment 
Relations Commission (WERC) determines there is reasonable ground to believe 
employees in an all-union agreement have changed their attitude about the 
agreement, WERC must conduct a referendum to determine whether the employees 
wish to continue the agreement.  WERC must terminate an all-union agreement if 
it finds the union unreasonably refused to admit an employee into the union.
Prevailing wage
The bill requires that laborers, workers, mechanics, and truck drivers 
employed on the site of certain projects of public works be paid the prevailing wage 
and not be required or allowed to work a greater number of hours per day and per 
week than the prevailing hours of labor unless they are paid overtime for all hours 
worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor.  Projects subject to the bill include 
state and local projects of public works, including state highway projects, with 
exceptions including projects below certain cost thresholds, minor service or 
maintenance work, and certain residential projects.  Under the bill, Xprevailing 
wage rate Y is defined as the hourly basic rate of pay, plus the hourly contribution for 
bona fide economic benefits, paid for a majority of the hours worked in a trade or 
occupation in the area in which the project is located, except that, if there is no rate 
at which a majority of those hours is paid, Xprevailing wage rate Y means the 
average hourly basic rate of pay, plus the average hourly contribution for bona fide 
economic benefits, paid for the highest-paid 51 percent of hours worked in a trade or 
occupation in the area.  XPrevailing hours of labor Y is defined as 10 hours per day 
and 40 hours per week, excluding weekends and holidays.  The bill requires DWD to 
conduct investigations and hold public hearings as necessary to define the trades or 
occupations that are commonly employed on projects that are subject to the 
prevailing wage law and to inform itself of the prevailing wage rates in all areas of 
the state for those trades or occupations, in order to determine the prevailing wage 
rate for each trade or occupation.  The bill contains certain other provisions 
regarding the calculation of prevailing wage rates by DWD, including provisions 
allowing persons to request recalculations or reviews of the prevailing wage rates 
determined by DWD.
The bill requires contracts and notices for bids for projects subject to the bill to 
include and incorporate provisions ensuring compliance with the requirements.  
The bill also establishes a requirement that state agencies and local governments 
post prevailing wage rates and hours of labor in areas readily accessible to persons 
employed on the project or in sites regularly used for posting notices.
The bill makes a contractor that fails to pay the prevailing wage rate or 
overtime pay to an employee as required under the prevailing wage law liable to the 
affected employee for not only the amount of unpaid wages and overtime pay, but 
also for liquidated damages in an amount equal to 100 percent of the unpaid wages 
and overtime pay.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 55 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Finally, the bill includes, for both state and local projects of public works, 
provisions regarding coverage, compliance, enforcement, and penalties, including 1) 
requirements for affidavits to be filed by contractors affirming compliance with the 
prevailing wage law; 2) record retention requirements for contractors regarding 
wages paid to workers and provisions allowing for the inspection of those records by 
DWD; 3) liability and penalty provisions for certain violations, including criminal 
penalties; and 4) provisions prohibiting contracts from being awarded to persons 
who have failed to comply with the prevailing wage law.
Family and medical leave expansion
Under the current family and medical leave law, an employer that employs at 
least 50 individuals on a permanent basis must allow an employee who has been 
employed by the employer for more than 52 consecutive weeks and who has worked 
for the employer for at least 1,000 hours during the preceding 52 weeks to take 
family leave to care for the employee [s child, spouse, domestic partner, or parent 
who has a serious health condition.  Employers covered under the law must also 
allow an employee covered under the law to take up to two weeks of medical leave in 
a 12-month period when that employee has a serious health condition.  An employee 
may file a complaint with DWD regarding an alleged violation of the family and 
medical leave law within 30 days after either the violation occurs or the employee 
should reasonably have known that the violation occurred, whichever is later.
The bill makes the following changes to the family and medical leave law:
1.  Requires employers covered under the law to allow employees covered 
under the law to take family leave to provide for a grandparent, grandchild, or 
sibling who has a serious health condition.
2.  Decreases the number of hours an employee is required to work before 
qualifying for family and medical leave to 680 hours during the preceding 52 weeks.
3.  Extends the time period in which an employee may file a complaint with 
DWD to 300 days after either the violation occurs or the employee should 
reasonably have known that the violation occurred, whichever is later.
4.  Removes the age restriction from the definition of XchildY for various 
purposes under the family and medical leave law.
5.  Requires employers to allow employees to take family leave in the instance 
of an unforeseen or unexpected gap in childcare for an employee [s child, grandchild, 
or sibling or because of a qualifying exigency as to be determined by DWD related to 
covered active duty, as defined in the bill, or notification of an impending call or 
order to covered active duty of an employee [s child, spouse, domestic partner, 
parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling who is a member of the U.S. armed 
forces.
6.  Requires employers to allow employees to take family leave to address 
issues related to the employee or the employee [s child, spouse, domestic partner, 
parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling being the victim of domestic abuse, 
sexual abuse, or stalking.
7.  Requires employers to allow employees to take family leave to care for a 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 56 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
child, spouse, domestic partner, parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling of an 
employee who is in medical isolation and requires employers to allow employees to 
take medical leave when an employee is in medical isolation.  The bill defines 
Xmedical isolation Y to include when a local health officer or DHS advises that an 
individual isolate or quarantine; when a health care professional, a local health 
officer, or DHS advises that an individual seclude herself or himself when awaiting 
the results of a diagnostic test for a communicable disease or when the individual is 
infected with a communicable disease; and when an individual [s employer advises 
that the individual not come to the workplace due to a concern that the individual 
may have been exposed to or infected with a communicable disease.
Paid family and medical leave benefits
The bill requires employers that are covered by the current family and medical 
leave law to provide paid benefits to their employees for up to eight weeks of family 
and medical leave annually, beginning on January 1, 2027.  The bill exempts most 
state employers from required coverage.  Under the bill, an employer may buy 
private insurance to pay benefits to employees.  Employers are prohibited from 
deducting any cost of the insurance from an employee [s paycheck or otherwise 
seeking reimbursement for the cost of providing the leave benefits.
Under the bill, the amount of leave benefits for a week for which benefits are 
payable is as follows:  1) for the amount of the employee's average weekly earnings 
that are not more than 50 percent of the state annual median wage in the calendar 
year before the employee [s application year, 90 percent of that individual's average 
weekly earnings; or 2) for the amount of the employee [s average weekly earnings 
that are more than 50 percent of the state annual median wage in the calendar year 
before the employee [s application year, 50 percent of that employee [s average weekly 
earnings.
The bill also provides an employee with the right to appeal a final decision of 
an employer or an insurer to deny a leave benefit.
Minimum wage
The bill requires the secretary of workforce development to establish a 
committee to study options to achieve a minimum wage that ensures all workers in 
this state earn a living wage.  Under the bill, the committee consists of nine 
members, with five appointed by the governor, and one each appointed by the 
speaker of the assembly, the assembly minority leader, the senate majority leader, 
and the senate minority leader.  The committee must submit a report containing its 
recommendations for options to achieve a minimum wage and other means to 
ensure that all workers in this state earn a living wage to the governor and the 
appropriate standing committees of the legislature no later than October 1, 2026.
Employee right to request and receive work schedule changes
The bill requires an employer to negotiate in good faith with an employee to 
accommodate changes the employee requests to his or her work schedule.  Further, 
the bill requires that unless an employer has a bona fide business reason for 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 57 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
denying the request, the employer must approve an employee [s request if it is 
directly related to any of the following:
1. A serious health condition of the employee.
2. Responsibilities of the employee as a caregiver for a family member.
3. Enrollment of the employee in certain educational or training programs.
4. A part-time employee [s work scheduling conflicts with the employee [s other 
employment.
If an employer denies an employee [s request for a schedule change, the 
employer must inform the employee of the reasons for denial, including whether any 
of the reasons is a bona fide business reason as defined in the bill.
Service employee right to predictable work schedule
The bill requires an employer that employs an employee in certain service 
industry occupations, including retail, food service, and cleaning occupations, to 
provide the service employee with a written copy of the employee [s work schedule 
on or before the service employee [s first day of work.  With certain exceptions, if an 
employer changes the service employee [s work schedule, the employer must provide 
the new work schedule to the employee at least 14 days in advance.
The bill also requires that, if an employer changes a service employee [s work 
schedule with fewer than 14 days [ notice, the employer must pay the service 
employee an amount equal to the employee [s regular rate of pay for one hour of 
work.  Exceptions to this requirement include when the employee consents to the 
change or when the employer requires the service employee to work additional time 
because another employee was scheduled to work that time and is unexpectedly 
unavailable to work.
The bill also requires the following for employers that use certain scheduling 
practices:
1.  If the service employee reports to work and the employer does not allow the 
employee to work all time scheduled, the employer must provide the employee with 
a) full compensation as if the employee had worked the full shift or b) if the 
employee is scheduled to work more than four hours and works less than four hours, 
an amount equal to the employee [s regular rate of pay for the difference between 
four hours and the amount of time the employee actually works.
2.  If the employer requires the service employee to contact the employer, or 
wait to be contacted by the employer less than 24 hours before a work shift to 
determine whether the employee must report to work, the employer must pay the 
employee an amount equal to the employee [s regular rate of pay for one hour of 
work.
3.  If the employer requires the service employee to work a split shift, the 
employer must pay the employee an amount equal to the employee [s regular rate of 
pay for one hour of work.
If a service employee experiences more than one type of these scheduling 
practices with respect to a particular work shift, the employer must pay only one 
type of compensation, whichever is greatest.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 58 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
The bill also provides that, during any period in which the employer [s regular 
operations are suspended due to an event outside of the employer [s control, the 
employer is not required to comply with the service employee work scheduling 
requirements created in the bill.
Enforcement of rights regarding work schedules
The bill provides that an employer may not interfere with, restrain, or deny 
the exercise of the right of an employee to request and receive work schedule 
changes and the right of certain service employees to a predictable work schedule, 
and may not discharge or discriminate against such an employee for enforcing the 
employee [s rights under the bill.  An employee whose rights are violated may file a 
complaint with DWD, and DWD must process the complaint in the same manner 
that employment discrimination complaints are processed under current law.  That 
processing may include the ordering of back pay, reinstatement, compensation in 
lieu of reinstatement, and costs and attorney fees.
The bill also provides that DWD or an employee whose rights are violated may 
bring an action in circuit court against the employer without regard to exhaustion 
of any administrative remedy.  If the circuit court finds that a violation has 
occurred, the employer may be liable to the employee for compensatory damages, 
reasonable attorney fees and costs, and, under certain circumstances, liquidated 
damages equal to 100 percent of the amount of compensatory damages awarded to 
the employee.  In addition to any damages imposed on an employer in an 
administrative proceeding or circuit court action, an employer that willfully violates 
the protections created in the bill may be required to forfeit not more than $1,000 
for each violation.
Liquidated damages in wage claim actions
Under current law, if an employee files a claim in circuit court for unpaid 
wages, the court may award liquidated damages to the employee in addition to past 
due wages.  Under current law, the liquidated damages are as follows: 1) if an 
employee files the suit before DWD has finished its investigation and attempted to 
settle the claim, a court may award not more than 50 percent of the wages due and 
unpaid and 2) if an employee files the suit after DWD has completed its 
investigation of a wage claim, a court may award not more than 100 percent of the 
wages due and unpaid.  Under the bill, irrespective of whether DWD has completed 
its investigation of a wage claim, an employee is presumed to be entitled to 100 
percent of the wages due and unpaid in liquidated damages in addition to the 
unpaid wages due.  An employer may rebut this presumption by demonstrating that 
they acted in good faith and had a reasonable belief that they were in compliance 
with the law.
Compensation in job posting
Under the bill, an employer must include the compensation for the position in 
any job posting made by the employer.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 59 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Local employment regulations
The bill eliminates the preemptions of local governments from enacting or 
enforcing ordinances related to the following:
1.  Regulations related to wage claims and collections.
2.  Regulation of employee hours and overtime, including scheduling of 
employee work hours or shifts.
3.  The employment benefits an employer may be required to provide to its 
employees.
4.  An employer [s right to solicit information regarding the salary history of 
prospective employees.
5.  Regulations related to minimum wage.
6.  Occupational licensing requirements that are more stringent than a state 
requirement.  See  Local Government.
Certain state and local employment regulations
The bill eliminates the following:
1.  The prohibition of the state and local governments from requiring any 
person to waive the person [s rights under state or federal labor laws as a condition 
of any approval by the state or local government.
2.  A provision under which neither the state nor a local government may 
enact a statute or ordinance, adopt a policy or regulation, or impose a contract, 
zoning, permitting, or licensing requirement, or any other condition, that would 
require any person to accept any provision that is a subject of collective bargaining 
under state labor laws or the federal National Labor Relations Act.
Worker classification notice and posting
Current law requires DWD to perform certain duties related to worker 
classification, including for purposes of promoting and achieving compliance by 
employers with state employment laws.  The bill requires DWD to design and make 
available to employers a notice regarding worker classification laws, requirements 
for employers and employees, and penalties for noncompliance.  Under the bill, all 
employers in this state must post the notice in a conspicuous place where notices to 
employees are customarily posted.  Finally, the bill provides a penalty of not more 
than $100 for an employer who does not post the notice as required.
WORKER[S COMPENSATION
Expansion of PTSD coverage for first responders
The bill makes changes to the conditions of liability for worker [s compensation 
benefits for emergency medical responders, emergency medical services 
practitioners, volunteer firefighters, correctional officers, emergency dispatchers, 
coroners and coroner staff members, and medical examiners and medical examiner 
staff members (collectively, Xfirst responders Y), who are diagnosed with post-
traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Under current law, if a law enforcement officer or full-time firefighter is 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 60 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
diagnosed with PTSD by a licensed psychiatrist or psychologist and the mental 
injury that resulted in that diagnosis is not accompanied by a physical injury, that 
law enforcement officer or firefighter can bring a claim for worker [s compensation 
benefits if the conditions of liability are proven by the preponderance of the evidence 
and the mental injury is not the result of a good faith employment action by the 
person[s employer.  Also under current law, liability for such treatment for a mental 
injury is limited to no more than 32 weeks after the injury is first reported.
Under current law, an injured first responder who does not have an 
accompanying physical injury must, in order to receive worker [s compensation 
benefits for PTSD, demonstrate a diagnosis based on unusual stress of greater 
dimensions than the day-to-day emotional strain and tension experienced by all 
employees as required under School District No. 1 v. DILHR , 62 Wis. 2d 370, 215 
N.W.2d 373 (1974).  Under the bill, such an injured first responder is not required to 
demonstrate a diagnosis based on that standard, and instead must demonstrate a 
diagnosis based on the same standard as law enforcement officers and firefighters.  
Also, under the bill, a first responder is restricted to compensation for a mental 
injury that is not accompanied by a physical injury and that results in a diagnosis of 
PTSD three times in his or her lifetime irrespective of a change of employer or 
employment, in the same manner as law enforcement officers and firefighters.
Worker[s compensation; penalties for uninsured employers
Under current law, an employer who requires an employee to pay for any part 
of worker [s compensation insurance or who fails to provide mandatory worker [s 
compensation insurance coverage is subject to a forfeiture.  If the employer violates 
those requirements, for the first 10 days, the penalty under current law is not less 
than $100 and not more than $1,000 for such a violation.  If the employer violates 
those requirements for more than 10 days, the penalty under current law is not less 
than $10 and not more than $100 for each day of such a violation.
Under the bill, the forfeitures for an employer who requires an employee to pay 
for worker [s compensation coverage or fails to provide the coverage (violation) are as 
follows:
1.  For a first violation, $1,000 per violation or the amount of the insurance 
premium that would have been payable, whichever is greater.
2.  For a second violation, $2,000 per violation or two times the amount of the 
insurance premium that would have been payable, whichever is greater.
3.  For a third violation, $3,000 per violation or three times the amount of the 
insurance premium that would have been payable, whichever is greater.
4.  For a fourth or subsequent violation, $4,000 per violation or four times the 
amount of the insurance premium that would have been payable, whichever is 
greater.
Under current law, if an employer who is required to provide worker [s 
compensation insurance coverage provides false information about the coverage to 
his or her employees or contractors who request information about the coverage, or 
fails to notify a person who contracts with the employer that the coverage has been 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 61 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
canceled in relation to the contract, the employer is subject to a forfeiture of not less 
than $100 and not more than $1,000 for each such violation.
Under the bill, the penalty for a first or second such violation remains as 
specified under current law, the penalty for a third violation is $3,000, and the 
penalty for a fourth or subsequent violation is $4,000.
Currently, an uninsured employer must pay to DWD an amount that is equal 
to the greater of the following: 1) twice the amount that the uninsured employer 
would have paid for worker [s compensation coverage during periods in which the 
employer was uninsured in the preceding three years or 2) $750 or, if certain 
conditions apply, $100 per day.
The bill provides that the amounts an uninsured employer must pay to DWD 
for a determination of a failure to carry worker [s compensation insurance are as 
follows:
1.  For a first or second determination, the amounts specified in current law.
2.  For a third determination, the greater of the following: a) three times the 
amount that the uninsured employer would have paid for worker [s compensation 
coverage during periods in which the employer was uninsured in the preceding 
three years or b) $3,000.
3.  For a fourth or subsequent determination, the greater of the following: a) 
four times the amount that the uninsured employer would have paid for worker [s 
compensation coverage during periods in which the employer was uninsured in the 
preceding three years or b) $4,000.
False or fraudulent worker [s compensation insurance applications
Current law specifies criminal penalties for various types of insurance fraud, 
which are punishable as either a Class A misdemeanor or a Class I felony, 
depending on the value of the claim or benefit.  The bill adds to the list of criminally 
punishable insurance fraud the following:  1) the presentation of false or fraudulent 
applications for worker [s compensation insurance coverage and 2) the presentation 
of applications for worker [s compensation insurance coverage that falsely or 
fraudulently misclassify employees in order to lower premiums.
Also under current law, if an insurer or self-insured employer has evidence 
that a worker [s compensation claim is false or fraudulent, the insurer or self-
insured employer must generally report the claim to DWD.  If, on the basis of the 
investigation, DWD has a reasonable basis to believe that criminal insurance fraud 
has occurred, DWD must refer the matter to the district attorney for prosecution.  
DWD may request assistance from DOJ to investigate false or fraudulent activity 
related to a worker [s compensation claim.  If, on the basis of that investigation, 
DWD has a reasonable basis to believe that theft, forgery, fraud, or any other 
criminal violation has occurred, DWD must refer the matter to the district attorney 
or DOJ for prosecution.  The bill extends these requirements to insurers that have 
evidence that an application for worker [s compensation insurance coverage is 
fraudulent or that an employer has committed fraud by misclassifying employees to 
lower the employer [s worker [s compensation insurance premiums.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 62 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Worker[s compensation; substantial fault
Currently, under the worker [s compensation law, an employer is not liable for 
temporary disability benefits during an employee [s healing period if the employee is 
suspended or terminated from employment due to misconduct by the employee 
connected with the employee [s work.  Current law defines Xmisconduct Y by 
reference to the unemployment insurance (UI) law.  The bill changes the definition 
of Xmisconduct Y under the UI law, which change also applies for purposes of the 
worker[s compensation law as described above.
Reimbursements for supplemental worker [s compensation benefits
Under current law, worker [s compensation insurers must pay supplemental 
benefits to certain employees who were permanently disabled by an injury that is 
compensable under worker [s compensation.
DWD is authorized to collect up to $5,000,000 from insurers that provide 
worker[s compensation insurance to provide those supplemental benefits. This 
money must be used exclusively to provide reimbursements to insurers that pay 
those supplemental benefits and that request reimbursements.  The bill creates a 
new, separate appropriation in the worker [s compensation operations fund, to be 
used exclusively to provide these reimbursements.  The bill does not increase 
revenue to DWD or collections from insurers.
UNEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE
Unemployment insurance; worker misclassification penalties
Current law requires DWD to assess an administrative penalty against an 
employer engaged in construction projects or in the painting or drywall finishing of 
buildings or other structures who knowingly and intentionally provides false 
information to DWD for the purpose of misclassifying or attempting to misclassify 
an individual who is an employee of the employer as a nonemployee under the UI 
law.  The penalty under current law is $500 for each employee who is misclassified, 
not to exceed $7,500 per incident.  In addition, current law provides for criminal 
fines of up to $25,000 for employers who, after having previously been assessed 
such an administrative penalty, commit another violation.  Current law 
additionally requires DWD to assess an administrative penalty against such an 
employer who, through coercion, requires an employee to adopt the status of a 
nonemployee; the penalty amount is $1,000 for each employee so coerced, but not to 
exceed $10,000 per calendar year.  Penalties are deposited into the unemployment 
program integrity fund.
The bill does the following:  1) removes the $7,500 and $10,000 limitations on 
the administrative penalties and provides that the penalties double for each act 
occurring after the date of the first determination of a violation; 2) removes the 
limitations on the types of employers to whom the prohibitions apply, making them 
applicable to any type of employer; and 3) specifies that DWD may make referrals 
for criminal prosecution for alleged criminal misclassification violations regardless 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 63 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
of whether an employer has been subject to any other penalty or assessment under 
the UI law.
Increasing maximum weekly benefits
Under current law, a person who qualifies for UI receives a weekly benefit rate 
equal to a percentage of that person [s past earnings, but the weekly benefit rate is 
capped at $370.  The bill changes the maximum weekly benefit rate in the following 
ways:
1.  For benefits paid for weeks of unemployment beginning on or after January 
4, 2026, but before January 3, 2027, the maximum weekly benefit rate is capped at 
$497.
2.  For benefits paid for weeks of unemployment beginning on or after January 
3, 2027, the maximum weekly benefit rate is increased based upon the change in 
the consumer price index and is then increased on the same basis annually 
thereafter.
Increasing benefit wage cap
Under current law, a person who qualifies for UI is ineligible to receive any UI 
benefits for a week if the person receives or will receive wages or certain other 
earnings totalling more than $500 (wage cap).  The bill changes the wage cap in the 
following ways:
1.  For weeks of unemployment beginning on or after January 4, 2026, but 
before January 3, 2027, the wage cap is increased to $672.
2.  For weeks of unemployment beginning on or after January 3, 2027, the 
wage cap is increased based upon the change in the consumer price index and is 
then increased on the same basis annually thereafter.
Substantial fault
Under current law, a claimant for UI benefits whose work is terminated by his 
or her employer for substantial fault by the claimant connected with the claimant [s 
work is ineligible to receive UI benefits until the claimant satisfies certain 
requalification criteria.  With certain exceptions, current law defines Xsubstantial 
faultY to include those acts or omissions of a claimant over which the claimant 
exercised reasonable control and that violate reasonable requirements of the 
claimant [s employer.  The bill eliminates this provision on substantial fault.
Misconduct
Under current law, a claimant for UI benefits whose work is terminated by his 
or her employer for misconduct by the claimant connected with the claimant [s work 
is ineligible to receive UI benefits until the claimant satisfies certain requalification 
criteria, and the claimant [s wages paid by the employer that terminates the 
claimant for misconduct are excluded for purposes of calculating benefit 
entitlement.  Current law defines Xmisconduct Y using a general, common law 
standard derived from Boynton Cab Co. v. Neubeck , 237 Wis. 249 (1941), and 
enumerates several specific types of conduct that also constitute misconduct.  
Under one of these specific provisions, misconduct includes 1) absenteeism on more 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 64 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
than two occasions within the 120-day period before the date of the claimant [s 
termination, unless otherwise specified by his or her employer in an employment 
manual of which the claimant has acknowledged receipt with his or her signature, 
or 2) excessive tardiness by a claimant in violation of a policy of the employer that 
has been communicated to the claimant.  In Department of Workforce Development 
v. Labor and Industry Review Commission (Beres) , 2018 WI 77, the supreme court 
held that an employer could, under the language described above, institute an 
attendance policy more restrictive than two occasions within the 120-day period.
Current law also provides that absenteeism or tardiness count as misconduct 
only if the claimant did not provide to his or her employer both notice and one or 
more valid reasons for the absenteeism or tardiness.  In Bevco Precision 
Manufacturing v. Labor and Industry Review Commission , 2024 WI App. 54, the 
court of appeals held that under Beres , this qualifying language did not apply if an 
employer had adopted its own standard on absenteeism and tardiness, as described 
above.
The bill does all of the following:
1.  Eliminates the language referencing Xexcessive tardiness. Y
2.  Reverses the holding in Bevco  by providing that a claimant [s notice and 
reason for an occasion of absenteeism or tardiness are to be analyzed under the 
common law misconduct standard.  Under the bill, therefore, an employer may not 
establish its own policy for determining the reasonableness of absenteeism or 
tardiness.  The bill does not, however, affect the general ability of an employer to 
institute a standard for absenteeism and tardiness more restrictive than two 
occasions within the 120-day period before termination.
3.  Clarifies, in another provision defining misconduct, that Xtribal 
government Y has the meaning given under state and federal law for what is 
considered an Indian tribe.
Drug testing
Current state law requires DWD to establish a program to test certain 
claimants who apply for UI benefits for the presence of controlled substances in a 
manner that is consistent with federal law.  A claimant who tests positive for a 
controlled substance for which the claimant does not have a prescription is 
ineligible for UI benefits until certain requalification criteria are satisfied or unless 
he or she enrolls in a substance abuse treatment program and undergoes a job skills 
assessment, and a claimant who declines to submit to a test is simply ineligible for 
benefits until he or she requalifies.  The bill eliminates the requirement to establish 
the drug testing program.
Also under current law, an employer may voluntarily submit to DWD the 
results of a preemployment test for the presence of controlled substances that was 
conducted on an individual as a condition of an offer of employment or notify DWD 
that an individual declined to submit to such a test.  If DWD then verifies that 
submission, the employee may be ineligible for UI benefits until he or she 
requalifies.  However, a claimant who tested positive may maintain eligibility by 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 65 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
enrolling in a substance abuse treatment program and undergoing a job skills 
assessment.  The bill eliminates these preemployment drug testing provisions.
Acceptance of suitable work
Under current law, if a claimant for UI benefits fails, without good cause, to 
accept suitable work when offered, the claimant is ineligible to receive benefits until 
he or she earns wages after the week in which the failure occurs equal to at least six 
times the claimant [s weekly UI benefit rate in covered employment.  Current law 
specifies what is considered Xsuitable work Y for purposes of these provisions, with 
different standards applying depending on whether six weeks have elapsed since 
the claimant became unemployed.  Once six weeks have elapsed since the claimant 
became unemployed, the claimant is required to accept work that pays lower and 
involves a lower grade of skill.
The bill modifies these provisions described above so that the claimant is not 
required to accept less favorable work until 10 weeks  have elapsed since the 
claimant became unemployed.
Quits due to nonsuitable work
Under current law, unless an exception applies, if a claimant for UI benefits 
quits his or her job, the claimant is generally ineligible to receive UI benefits until 
he or she qualifies through subsequent employment.  Under one such exception, if a 
claimant quits his or her job and 1) the claimant accepted work that was not 
suitable work under the UI law or work that the claimant could have refused, and 2) 
the claimant terminated the work within 30 calendar days after starting the work, 
the claimant remains eligible to collect UI benefits.  Under the bill, this exemption 
applies if the claimant terminated that work within 10 weeks after starting the 
work.
Waiting period
Currently, a claimant must wait one week after becoming eligible to receive UI 
benefits before the claimant may receive benefits for a week of unemployment, 
except for periods during which the waiting period is suspended.  The waiting 
period does not affect the maximum number of weeks of a claimant [s benefit 
eligibility.
The bill deletes the one-week waiting period, thus permitting a claimant to 
receive UI benefits beginning with his or her first week of eligibility.
Work search and registration
Under current law, a claimant for UI benefits is generally required to register 
for work and to conduct a work search for each week in order to remain eligible.  
Current law requires DWD to waive these requirements under certain 
circumstances, for example, if a claimant who is laid off from work reasonably 
expects to be recalled to work within 12 weeks, will start a new job within four 
weeks, routinely obtains work through a labor union referral, or is participating in 
a training or work share program.  Under current law, DWD may modify the 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 66 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
statutory waivers or establish additional waivers by rule only if doing so is required 
or specifically allowed by federal law.
The bill removes the waiver requirements from statute and instead allows 
DWD to establish waivers for the registration for work and work search 
requirements by rule.  DWD may establish a waiver by emergency rule if the 
secretary of workforce development determines that the waiver is needed only on a 
temporary basis or that permanent rules are not warranted, and the bill allows the 
secretary to extend the emergency rule for up to 60 days at a time.  Also, the bill 
specifies that the work search requirement does not apply to a claimant who has 
been laid off but DWD determines that the claimant has a reasonable expectation to 
be recalled to work.
Social security disability insurance payments
Under current law, in any week in any month that a claimant is issued a 
benefit under the federal Social Security Disability Insurance program (SSDI 
payment), that claimant is ineligible for UI benefits. The bill eliminates that 
prohibition and instead requires DWD to reduce a claimant [s UI benefit payments 
by the amount of SSDI payments.  The bill requires DWD to allocate a monthly 
SSDI payment by allocating to each week the fraction of the payment attributable 
to that week.
Quits due to relocations
Under current law, unless an exception applies, if an individual quits his or 
her job, the individual is generally ineligible to receive UI benefits until he or she 
qualifies through subsequent employment.
Under one such exception, if the employee [s spouse is a member of the U.S. 
armed forces on active duty and is relocated, and the employee quits his or her job in 
order to relocate with his or her spouse, the employee remains eligible to collect UI 
benefits.  The bill expands this exception so that it applies to an employee who quits 
employment in order to relocate with a spouse who is required by any employer, not 
just the U.S. armed forces, to relocate.
Electronic communications
Currently, with certain exceptions, each employer that has employees who are 
engaged in employment covered by the UI law must file quarterly contribution (tax) 
and employment and wage reports and make quarterly contribution payments to 
DWD.  An employer of 25 or more employees or an employer agent that files reports 
on behalf of any employer must file its reports electronically.  Current law also 
requires each employer that makes contributions for any 12-month period ending 
on June 30 equal to a total of at least $10,000 to make all contribution payments 
electronically in the following year.  Finally, current law allows DWD to provide a 
secure means of electronic interchange between itself and employing units, 
claimants, and other persons that, upon request to and with prior approval by 
DWD, may be used for transmission or receipt of any document specified by DWD 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 67 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
that is related to the administration of the UI law in lieu of any other means of 
submission or receipt.
The bill makes use of these electronic methods mandatory in all cases unless 
the employer or other person demonstrates good cause for being unable to use the 
electronic method.  The bill specifies what constitutes good cause for purposes of 
these provisions.  The bill also makes various corresponding changes to penalty 
provisions that apply in the case of nonuse of these required electronic methods.  
The bill further provides that DWD may permit the use of electronic records and 
electronic signatures for any document specified by DWD that is related to the 
administration of the UI law.
JOBS AND JOB TRAINING
Wisconsin Fast Forward grants
Under current law, DWD awards grants under what is commonly known as 
the Wisconsin Fast Forward program, for various workforce training purposes.  The 
bill adds grants for education and training in the use of artificial intelligence to the 
allowed uses of funds under the program and requires DWD to collaborate with 
DHS and DPI in administering the program.  The bill also requires DWD to allocate 
moneys under the Wisconsin Fast Forward program as follows:
1.  A total of $2,000,000 in GPR funding in fiscal year 2025 ]26 for green jobs 
training.
2.  A total of $200,000 in GPR funding in each year of the 2025 ]27 fiscal 
biennium for grants to help school districts to prepare students for a future that 
includes artificial intelligence.
3. A total of $1,000,000 in GPR funding in each year of the 2025 ]27 fiscal 
biennium to provide grants to support costs of sponsoring teacher apprentices.
4.  A total of $500,000 in GPR funding in each year of the 2025 ]27 fiscal 
biennium to support training in the health care industry.
Youth to registered apprentice grant program
The bill requires DWD to develop and administer a grant program to award 
grants to local youth apprenticeship consortia to encourage individuals who are 
enrolled in youth apprenticeship programs to continue their careers in registered 
apprenticeship programs.  The bill limits grants to no more than $350,000 in any 
fiscal year.
On-the-job learning grant program
The bill requires DWD to develop and administer a grant program to award 
grants to employers for costs related to apprenticeship programs, specifically wages 
for apprentices and costs for mentoring and instruction.  Eligible employers are 
healthcare employers under a pilot program and small or new employers that have 
never had an apprenticeship program or have not had an apprenticeship program 
in the particular trade, craft, or business for which the employer seeks the grant in 
the five years before applying for the grant.
Workforce innovation grant program
The bill requires DWD to establish and operate a program to provide grants to 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 68 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
regional organizations to design and implement programs to address their region [s 
workforce challenges.  The bill also provides that in the 2025 ]26 fiscal year, DWD 
must allocate $15,000,000 for grants for workforce development in the area of 
artificial intelligence and $25,000,000 for grants for health care workforce 
development.
Teacher apprenticeships
DWD is currently operating a teacher apprenticeship pilot program, under 
which an individual serving as a teacher apprentice earns an associate degree and 
a bachelor [s degree that satisfy requirements for a license to teach issued by DPI 
while the individual earns money as a teacher apprentice.  The bill requires DWD 
to, in consultation with DPI, prescribe the conditions under which an individual 
may serve as a teacher apprentice and to prescribe what an individual must do to 
demonstrate that the individual has successfully completed a teacher 
apprenticeship.  See  Education .
Wisconsin worker advancement program
The bill requires DWD to establish and maintain the Wisconsin worker 
advancement program to make grants to local organizations for the organizations to 
provide employment and workforce services.
DISCRIMINATION
Civil actions regarding employment discrimination, unfair honesty, and 
unfair genetic testing
Under current fair employment law, an individual who alleges that an 
employer has violated employment discrimination, unfair honesty testing, or unfair 
genetic testing laws may file a complaint with DWD seeking action that will 
effectuate the purpose of the fair employment law, including reinstating the 
individual, providing back pay, and paying costs and attorney fees.
The bill allows DWD or an individual who is alleged or was found to have been 
discriminated against or subjected to unfair honesty or genetic testing to bring an 
action in circuit court to recover compensatory and punitive damages caused by the 
act of discrimination, unfair honesty testing, or unfair genetic testing, in addition to 
or in lieu of filing an administrative complaint.  The action in circuit court must be 
commenced within 300 days after the alleged discrimination, unfair honesty 
testing, or unfair genetic testing occurred.  The bill does not allow such an action for 
damages to be brought against a local governmental unit or against an employer 
that employs fewer than 15 individuals.
Under the bill, if the circuit court finds that a defendant has committed 
employment discrimination, unfair honesty testing, or unfair genetic testing, the 
circuit court may award back pay and any other relief that could have been awarded 
in an administrative proceeding.  In addition, the circuit court must order the 
defendant to pay to the individual found to have been discriminated against or 
found to have received unfair genetic testing or unfair honesty testing 
compensatory and punitive damages in the amount that the circuit court finds 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 69 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
appropriate, except that the total amount of damage awarded for future economic 
losses and for pain and suffering, emotional distress, mental anguish, loss of 
enjoyment of life, and other noneconomic losses and punitive damages is subject to 
the following limitations:
1.  If the defendant employs 100 or fewer employees, no more than $50,000.
2.  If the defendant employs more than 100 but fewer than 201 employees, no 
more than $100,000.
3.  If the defendant employs more than 200 but fewer than 501 employees, no 
more than $200,000.
4.  If the defendant employs more than 500 employees, no more than $300,000.
The bill requires DWD to annually revise these amounts on the basis of the 
change in the consumer price index in the previous year, if any positive change has 
occurred.
Employment discrimination based on conviction record
The bill provides that it is employment discrimination for a prospective 
employer to request conviction information from a job applicant before the applicant 
has been selected for an interview.
The bill, however, does not prohibit an employer from notifying job applicants 
that an individual with a particular conviction record may be disqualified by law or 
the employer [s policies from employment in particular positions.
Employment discrimination based on gender expression and gender 
identity
Current law prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of a person [s 
sex or sexual orientation.  The bill prohibits employers from discriminating against 
an employee on the basis of the employee [s gender identity or gender expression.  
Gender expression is defined in the bill as an individual [s actual or perceived 
gender-related appearance, behavior, or expression, regardless of whether these 
traits are stereotypically associated with the individual [s assigned sex at birth.  
Gender identity is defined in the bill an individual [s internal understanding of the 
individual [s gender, or the individual [s perceived gender identity.
ADMINISTRATION  AND FINANCE
Worker[s compensation; appropriations
Under current law, the costs of DWD [s administration of the worker [s 
compensation program is generally funded by a general worker [s compensation 
operations appropriation under the worker [s compensation operations fund.  
However, the worker [s compensation uninsured employers program and certain 
other worker [s compensation activities are instead funded by a separate 
appropriation from the worker [s compensation operations fund.  The bill does the 
following:
1.  Eliminates the separate appropriation and instead funds the worker [s 
compensation uninsured employers program and those other activities from the 
general appropriation.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 70 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
2.  Changes the general appropriation for worker [s compensation from a sum 
certain to a sum sufficient appropriation.
Elimination of automatic transfer 
Under current law, administration of the worker [s compensation program is 
funded from a DWD appropriation from the worker [s compensation operations fund.  
The Labor Industry and Review Commission (LIRC) decides appeals of worker [s 
compensation decisions for DWD.  Under current law, moneys are automatically 
transferred from the DWD appropriation to a LIRC appropriation account to pay for 
those hearing activities.  The bill eliminates this automatic transfer of moneys to 
the LIRC appropriation account.  The bill retains the LIRC appropriation, but 
funds it directly from the worker [s compensation operations fund, in an amount set 
in the appropriation schedule in ch. 20, stats.  With this change, any money 
remaining in the LIRC appropriation at the end of a fiscal year will lapse to the 
worker[s compensation operations fund.
Wisconsin Fast forward training appropriation
The bill changes from an annual appropriation to a continuing appropriation 
an appropriation for training programs, grants, services, and contracts that are 
part of DWD [s Wisconsin Fast Forward program.
Youth apprenticeship appropriation change
Under current law, DWD may award grants to local partnerships for youth 
apprenticeship programs.  The grant program is funded through a sum certain 
appropriation.  The bill changes that appropriation to a sum sufficient 
appropriation.
Migrant labor camp facilities
The bill excludes from the definition of Xmigrant labor camp Y bed and 
breakfasts, hotels, and rooming houses that are required to be licensed by DATCP.
Migrant labor contractors and migrant labor camps
Under current law, migrant labor contractors are required to have a certificate 
of registration from DWD, which the contractor must renew annually.  To receive 
the certificate, the contractor must provide an application, which must be 
accompanied by a fee.  Also under current law, a person that maintains a migrant 
labor camp is required to have a certificate from DWD to operate the camp, which 
the person must renew annually.  To receive the certificate, the operator of the camp 
must provide an application, which must be accompanied by a fee.  Current law 
requires that these fees be deposited in the state general fund and not credited to a 
specific appropriation.  The bill instead requires that the fees be credited to the 
DWD auxiliary services appropriation and authorizes that appropriation to be used 
for administrative costs related to the migrant labor program administered by 
DWD.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 71 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
ENVIRONMENT
PFAS
The bill contains several provisions relating to perfluoroalkyl and 
polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS).
Spills law exemptions and requirements for PFAS
Under current law provisions known as the Xspills law, Y a person that 
possesses or controls a hazardous substance or that causes the discharge of a 
hazardous substance must notify DNR immediately, restore the environment to the 
extent practicable, and minimize the harmful effects from the discharge.  If action 
is not being adequately taken, or the identity of the person responsible for the 
discharge is unknown, DNR may take emergency action to contain or remove the 
hazardous substance; the person that possessed or controlled the hazardous 
substance that was discharged or that caused the discharge of the hazardous 
substance must then reimburse DNR for expenses DNR incurred in taking such 
emergency actions.  The spills law allows DNR to enter property to take emergency 
action if entry is necessary to prevent increased environmental damages, and to 
inspect any record relating to a hazardous substance for the purpose of determining 
compliance with the spills law.  DNR may also require that preventive measures be 
taken by any person possessing or having control over a hazardous substance if 
existing control measures are inadequate to prevent discharges.
The bill exempts a person who possesses or controls property where a PFAS 
discharge occurred from all of the requirements, if all of the following apply:
1.  The property is exclusively used for agricultural use or residential use.
2.  The discharge was caused by land application of sludge according to a water 
pollutant discharge elimination system (WPDES) permit.
3.  The person who possesses or controls the property allows DNR, any 
responsible party, and any consultant or contractor of a responsible party to enter 
the property to take action to respond to the discharge.
4.  The person who possesses or controls the property does not interfere with 
any action taken in response to the discharge and does not take any action that 
worsens or contributes to the PFAS discharge.
5.  The person who possesses or controls the property follows any other 
condition that DNR determines is reasonable and necessary to ensure that DNR, 
the responsible party, or any consultant or contractor of the responsible party is 
able to adequately respond to the discharge, including taking action necessary to 
protect human health, safety, or welfare or the environment, taking into 
consideration the current or intended use of the property.
6.  The person who possesses or controls the property allows DNR to limit 
public access to the property if DNR determines it is necessary to prevent an 
imminent threat to human health, safety, or welfare or to the environment.
Under the bill, this exemption applies only to PFAS for which there is a state 
or federal standard, a public health recommendation from DHS, or a health 
advisory issue by the federal Environmental Protection Agency.  The exemption 
also does not apply after December 31, 2035.  The exemption does not apply to any 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 72 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
substances other than PFAS, and does not apply if the person that possesses or 
controls the property takes action that worsens or contributes to the PFAS 
discharge.
The bill requires a person that is exempt from these provisions to provide 
written disclosure of the type and location of the PFAS contamination and 
remediation activities to any prospective purchaser or tenant of the property.  The 
bill also provides that the exemption may not be transferred to subsequent owners 
of the property; each person that possesses or controls the property must establish 
eligibility for the exemption.
 The bill also provides that DNR may not use the fact that a person has applied 
for financial assistance under the state [s well compensation program, the county 
well testing grant program created in the bill, or any other state grant programs 
funded by the federal American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 to determine whether the 
person is a person that possesses or controls a hazardous substance or that causes 
the discharge of a hazardous substance for purposes of applying the spills law.
Finally, the bill provides that, if there is no existing standard for a hazardous 
substance, the person that possesses or controls the hazardous substance or that 
caused the discharge of the hazardous substance must propose site-specific 
environmental standards for DNR approval.
Groundwater standards for PFAS
Under current law, DNR maintains a list of substances that have a reasonable 
probability of entering the groundwater resources of the state and that are shown to 
involve public health concerns.  DHS recommends groundwater enforcement 
standards for substances on this list, which DNR then proposes as DNR rules in its 
rule-making process.  The bill requires DNR to begin the rule-making process to 
adopt DHS [s recommended groundwater enforcement standards for any PFAS 
within three months after receiving DHS [s recommendation.
Rule-making exemptions for PFAS
Current law requires an agency to suspend working on a permanent rule if it 
determines that the proposed rule may result in more than $10,000,000 in 
implementation and compliance costs over any two-year period.  Current law also 
allows standing committees of the legislature and the Joint Committee for the 
Review of Administrative Rules (JCRAR) to review, approve, object to, or modify a 
proposed rule.  If JCRAR objects to all or part of a proposed rule, that rule may not 
be promulgated unless a bill is introduced and enacted that authorizes the 
promulgation of the rule.  In addition, current law allows JCRAR to suspend rules 
that have already been promulgated; if the rule suspended is an emergency rule, 
the agency that promulgated the emergency rule is prohibited from proposing a 
permanent rule that contains the same substance as the suspended emergency 
rule.  The bill creates an exemption from these provisions for any proposed or 
existing DNR rule that establishes acceptable levels and standards, enforcement 
standards and preventative action limits, performance standards, monitoring 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 73 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
requirements, or required response actions for any PFAS compound or group or 
class of PFAS in groundwater, drinking water, surface water, air, soil, or sediment.
PFAS community grant program
The bill creates a community grant program, administered by DNR, to 
address PFAS.  Under the program, DNR must provide grants to cities, towns, 
villages, counties, tribal governments, utility districts, lake protections districts, 
sewerage districts, and municipal airports (municipalities).  DNR may award a 
grant only if the applicant tested or trained with a PFAS-containing firefighting 
foam in accordance with applicable state and federal law, or a third party tested or 
trained with PFAS-containing firefighting foam within the boundaries of the 
municipality; the applicant applied biosolids to land under a WPDES permit issued 
by DNR; PFAS are impacting the applicant [s drinking water supply or surface 
water or groundwater within the municipality and the responsible party is 
unknown or is unwilling or unable to take the necessary response actions; or PFAS 
contamination in groundwater is impacting private wells within the area controlled 
by the municipality.
Under the bill, grants provided under this program may be used to investigate 
potential PFAS impacts in order to reduce or eliminate environmental 
contamination; treat or dispose of PFAS-containing firefighting foam containers; 
sample a private water supply within three miles of a site or facility known to 
contain PFAS or to have caused a PFAS discharge; assist private well owners with 
the cost of installation of filters, treatment, or well replacement; provide a 
temporary emergency water supply, a water treatment system, or bulk water to 
replace water contaminated with PFAS; conduct emergency, interim, or remedial 
actions to mitigate, treat, dispose of, or remove PFAS contamination; remove or 
treat PFAS in public water systems in areas where PFAS levels exceed the 
maximum contaminant level for PFAS in drinking water or an enforcement 
standard for PFAS groundwater or in areas where the state has issued a health 
advisory for PFAS; create a new public water system or connect private well owners 
to an existing public water system in areas with widespread PFAS contamination in 
private wells; or sample and test water in schools and daycares for PFAS 
contamination.
An applicant that receives a grant under this program must contribute 
matching funds equal to at least 20 percent of the amount of the grant.  The 
applicant must apply for a grant on a form prescribed by DNR and must include any 
information that DNR finds is necessary to determine the eligibility of the project, 
identify the funding requested, determine the priority of the project, and calculate 
the amount of a grant.  In awarding grants under this program, DNR must consider 
the applicant [s demonstrated commitment to performing and completing eligible 
activities, including the applicant [s financial commitment and ability to 
successfully administer grants; the degree to which the project will have a positive 
impact on public health and the environment; and any other criteria that DNR 
finds necessary to prioritize the funds available for awarding grants.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 74 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
County PFAS well testing grant program
The bill also creates a grant program, under which DNR provides grants to 
counties to provide sampling and testing services to private well owners to sample 
and test for PFAS, nitrates, bacteria, and lead.  The bill creates an appropriation to 
be funded from the segregated PFAS fund for this purpose.
PFAS under the Safe Drinking Water Loan Program
Under current law, DOA and DNR administer the Safe Drinking Water Loan 
Program (SDWLP), which provides financial assistance from the environmental 
improvement program to municipalities, and to the private owners of community 
water systems that serve municipalities, for projects that will help the municipality 
comply with federal drinking water standards.  DNR establishes a funding priority 
list for SDWLP projects, and DOA allocates funding for those projects.
The bill requires DNR, when ranking the priority of SDWLP projects, to rank 
a project relating to PFAS in the same manner as if a maximum contaminant level 
for PFAS had been attained or exceeded, if DHS has recommended an enforcement 
standard for the type of PFAS involved in the project.
Mediator for municipalities seeking alternate water sources due to PFAS
Under the bill, if a municipality [s private water supplies have been 
contaminated by PFAS and the municipality is seeking an alternate water supply 
from another municipality, DNR may appoint a mediator to assist in negotiations 
between the two municipalities.  Under the bill, this provision only applies if the 
contaminating PFAS is in excess of a state or federal drinking water standard, a 
state groundwater standard, or a public health recommendation from DHS.  The 
bill provides that the person responsible for the contamination may participate in 
the negotiations.  The bill requires DNR to promulgate rules to implement these 
provisions, including rules for the allocation of the cost of a mediator.
Landspreading and PFAS
Under current law, a wastewater treatment facility, and any person that 
wishes to land spread sludge, must obtain a WPDES permit from DNR.  DNR is 
required to include conditions in such permits to ensure compliance with water 
quality standards.
Under the bill, a WPDES permit that allows the permittee to land spread 
sludge must also include a condition that requires the permittee to annually test 
the sludge for any type of PFAS for which there is a state or federal standard, a 
public health recommendation from DHS, or a health advisory from the federal 
Environmental Protection Agency.  The permittee must report the sampling and 
testing results to DNR and to the property owner before applying the sludge.
Additionally, a WPDES permit issued to a treatment work must require the 
permittee to test all sludge for the presence of PFAS and to report the testing 
results to DNR.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 75 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Proof of financial responsibility for PFAS contamination
The bill also provides that DNR may, if it determines doing so is necessary to 
protect human health or the environment, require a person who possesses or 
controls or who causes the discharge of PFAS, or who manufactures products that 
contain intentionally added PFAS, to provide proof of financial responsibility for 
remediation and long-term care to address contamination by a potential discharge 
of PFAS or environmental pollution that may be caused by a discharge of PFAS.  
This financial responsibility requirement does not apply to a person that is exempt 
from the spills law under the provisions of the bill.
Environmental justice impacts of PFAS transportation and disposal
The bill requires a person disposing of PFAS, or transporting PFAS for the 
purpose of disposal, to attempt to the greatest extent possible to avoid disposing of 
PFAS in, or transporting PFAS to, any location where such disposal or 
transportation will contribute to environmental justice concerns and to consider all 
reasonable alternatives for transport and disposal of PFAS.  The bill requires DNR 
to assist in evaluating the environmental justice impacts of a person [s PFAS 
disposal or transportation.
Statewide PFAS biomonitoring studies
The bill requires DHS to conduct biomonitoring studies across the state to 
assess PFAS exposure levels and better understand the factors that affect PFAS 
levels in residents of different communities.  As part of these studies, DHS may 
survey volunteer participants, test blood samples for PFAS, and analyze the results.
DATCP testing for PFAS
Under current law, DATCP conducts several statewide monitoring programs, 
sampling programs, and surveys related to testing groundwater quality for 
agricultural purposes.  The bill requires that, when collecting and testing samples 
under one of these statewide programs, DATCP must also, at its discretion and 
where appropriate, test samples for the presence of PFAS.
HAZARDOUS  SUBSTANCES  AND ENVIRONMENTAL  CLEANUP
Revitalize Wisconsin program
The bill creates the Revitalize Wisconsin program, which is administered by 
DNR and which provides aid, in the form of grants or direct services to local 
governments, dry cleaners, and private parties, to address the discharge of a 
hazardous substance or the existence of environmental pollution on the 
government [s or person [s property.  Aid may be provided for sites for which the 
site[s owner or operator applied for assistance under the dry cleaner environmental 
response program before the bill [s effective date; brownfields; sites that are exempt 
from the state [s spills law; and sites that are subject to the spills law but that are 
owned by private parties.  The bill defines Xprivate party Y to mean a bank, trust 
company, savings bank, or credit union; a developer; a nongovernmental 
organization; or an innocent landowner.  The bill defines an Xinnocent landowner Y 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 76 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
as a property owner that either 1) acquired the property prior to November 1, 2006, 
has continuously owned the property since the date of acquisition, and can 
demonstrate, through documentation, that the discharge or environmental 
pollution being addressed was caused by another person and that the property 
owner did not know and had no reason to know of the discharge or pollution when 
the owner acquired the property or 2) acquired the property on or after November 1, 
2006, meets all of the previously stated requirements, and can demonstrate, 
through documentation, that the property owner conducted all appropriate 
inquiries in compliance with federal law prior to acquiring the property.
The bill provides that DNR may not award aid to an applicant under the 
Revitalize Wisconsin program if the applicant caused the discharge or 
environmental pollution, unless the applicant is a dry cleaner that applied for 
assistance under the dry cleaner environmental response program before the bill [s 
effective date.  The bill also provides that DNR may require an applicant to provide 
a match, either in cash or in-kind services, for any aid that is awarded under the 
program.
Activities for which aid may be provided under the program include removing 
hazardous substances from contaminated media; investigating and assessing the 
discharge or environmental pollution; removing abandoned containers; asbestos 
abatement; and restoring or replacing a private potable water supply.
The bill also allows DNR to inspect any document in the possession of an 
applicant or any other person if the document is relevant to an application for 
financial assistance under the program.
Access to information on solid or hazardous waste
Under current law, a person who generated, transported, treated, stored, or 
disposed of solid or hazardous waste at a site or facility under investigation by DNR 
must provide DNR with access to certain records relating to that waste.  The bill 
requires a person who generated solid or hazardous waste at a site or facility under 
investigation by DNR to also provide this information, if the waste was transported 
to, treated at, stored at, or disposed of at another site, facility, or location.
Kewaunee Marsh remediation funding
The bill appropriates moneys from the general fund to DNR for development of 
a remedial action plan and for the remediation of arsenic contamination in the 
Kewaunee Marsh in Kewaunee County.
Amcast superfund site remediation funding
The bill appropriates moneys from the segregated environmental fund to DNR 
for remedial action relating to the Amcast superfund site in Cedarburg.  A 
Xsuperfund site Y is a site identified under the federal Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) as being 
contaminated with hazardous substances and requiring cleanup.
5R Processors cleanup funding lapse
Under current law, DNR is appropriated moneys from the environmental fund 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 77 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
to contract with third parties to perform assessment, collection, transportation, and 
disposal of cathode-ray tube glass and related waste generated from activities 
undertaken by 5R Processors.  The bill provides that, of those moneys, any 
unencumbered amounts are lapsed to the environmental fund.
WATER  QUALITY
Well compensation grant program
The bill makes changes to the well compensation grant program currently 
administered by DNR.
Under current law, an individual owner or renter of a contaminated private 
well may apply for a grant from DNR to cover a portion of the costs to treat the 
water, reconstruct the well, construct a new well, connect to a public water supply, 
or fill and seal the well.  To be eligible for a grant, the well owner [s or renter [s 
annual family income may not exceed $65,000.  A grant awarded under the program 
may not cover any portion of a project [s eligible costs in excess of $16,000 and, of 
those costs, may not exceed 75 percent of a project [s eligible costs, meaning that a 
grant may not exceed $12,000.  In addition, if the well owner [s or renter [s annual 
family income exceeds $45,000, the amount of the award is reduced by 30 percent of 
the amount by which the annual family income exceeds $45,000.
The bill increases the family income limit to $100,000.  In addition, under the 
bill, a well owner or renter whose family income is below the state [s median income 
may receive a grant of up to 100 percent of a project [s eligible costs, not to exceed 
$16,000.  The bill also eliminates the requirement to reduce an award by 30 percent 
if the well owner [s or renter [s family income exceeds $45,000.
The bill also expands the grant program to allow an owner or renter of a 
Xtransient noncommunity water supply Y to apply for a grant.  A Xtransient 
noncommunity water supply Y is defined in the bill as a water system that serves at 
least 25 persons at least 60 days of the year but that does not regularly serve at least 
25 of the same persons over six months per year.
Under current law, a well that is contaminated only by nitrates is eligible for a 
grant only if the well is a water supply for livestock, is used at least three months in 
each year, and contains nitrates in excess of 40 parts per million.  The bill 
eliminates these restrictions for claims based on nitrates, and instead allows grants 
to be issued for wells based on contamination by at least 10 parts per million of 
nitrate nitrogen.  The bill also allows grants to be issued for wells contaminated by 
at least 10 parts per billion of arsenic, or by a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
substance (PFAS) in an amount that exceeds any applicable health advisory or 
standard for that substance.
Under current law, DNR must issue grants in the order in which completed 
claims are received.  Under the bill, if there are insufficient funds to pay claims, 
DNR may, for claims based on nitrate contamination, prioritize claims that are 
based on higher levels of nitrate contamination.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 78 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Town of Bloom well compensation grant eligibility
Under current law, a city, village, town, county, or special purpose district is 
not eligible for a grant under the well compensation grant program.  The bill 
provides that the town of Bloom in Richland County may apply for this type of 
grant, but the grant may not exceed $16,000.
Ballast water discharge
Under current law, DNR may issue a general permit authorizing a vessel that 
is 79 feet or greater in length to discharge ballast water into the waters of the state. 
DNR may charge an application fee of $1,200 and a $345 annual fee for the permit.  
DNR must use collected fees to administer the permit program.
The bill eliminates these provisions and provides that the owner or operator of 
any commercial vessel subject to the requirements of the federal Vessel Incidental 
Discharge Act that has operated outside this state must pay DNR $650 per arrival 
to a port of this state.  Under the bill, the owner or operator of a commercial vessel 
subject to these requirements, including a vessel engaged in coastwise trade, may 
not be required to pay more than $3,250 in fees per calendar year.  DNR must use 
collected fees for management, administration, inspection, monitoring, and 
enforcement activities relating to incidental discharges, including ballast water 
discharges.
Under current law, an employee or agent of DNR may board and inspect any 
vessel that is subject to requirements relating to environmental protection 
requirements for tank vessels or open burning on commercial vessels to determine 
compliance with those requirements.
The bill provides that DNR may enter into a memorandum of agreement with 
the U.S. Coast Guard authorizing an employee or agent of DNR to board and 
inspect any vessel that is subject to the requirements under the bill to determine 
compliance with the federal Vessel Incidental Discharge Act.
Storm water pond safety
Under current law, DNR issues water pollutant discharge elimination system 
(WPDES) permits and storm water discharge permits and promulgates rules for 
the administration of both permits. The bill requires that DNR promulgate rules 
establishing that any pond located in an area with a population density of at least 
1,000 people per square mile that is constructed as part of an activity for which 
these permits are required must include one or more of the following safety 
features:  1) a shallow ledge around the periphery of the pond; 2) vegetation that is 
at least 24 inches high between the pond and any easy point of access; or 3) any 
other alternative safety feature authorized by DNR by rule.
Winter road safety improvement grant program
The bill requires DNR to administer a program to provide grants to 
municipalities for eligible expenditures for equipment critical to winter road safety.  
The bill requires DNR to promulgate rules necessary to administer the program, 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 79 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
including rules that specify criteria for determining eligible recipients and 
expenditures.
Fee for high capacity well approvals
Under current law, no person may construct a high capacity well, which is a 
well with a capacity of more than 100,000 gallons per day, without prior approval of 
DNR and payment of a $500 fee.  The bill increases that fee to $1,000.
Fee for CAFO permits
Under current law, a person who operates a concentrated animal feeding 
operation (CAFO) must have a WPDES permit from DNR.  A CAFO is a livestock 
operation that contains at least 1,000 animal units, that discharges pollutants to a 
navigable water, or that contaminates a well.  Current law requires a CAFO 
operator with a WPDES permit to pay an annual fee of $345 to DNR.  The bill 
increases the amount of this annual fee to $545.
Fee for WPDES general permits
Under current law, a person may not discharge a pollutant into waters of the 
state without a WPDES permit issued by DNR.  In addition to site-specific 
individual permits, DNR is authorized to issue a general permit that authorizes 
specified discharges in a designated area of the state.  The bill requires DNR to 
charge a $425 processing fee for these permits.
Storm water permit appropriation
Under current law, a person may need to obtain a permit from DNR to 
discharge storm water.  Current law appropriates money annually from the general 
fund for the administration of the storm water discharge permit program.  Storm 
water permit fees collected by DNR are credited to the storm water permit 
appropriation.
The bill changes the storm water permit appropriation from an annual to a 
continuing appropriation.  An annual appropriation is expendable only up to the 
amount shown in the schedule and only for the fiscal year for which made.  A 
continuing appropriation is expendable until fully depleted or repealed.
Lead service line replacement appropriation
Under current law, DOA and DNR administer the Safe Drinking Water Loan 
Program (SDWLP), which provides financial assistance from the environmental 
improvement program to local governmental units and to the private owners of 
community water systems that serve local governmental units for projects for the 
planning, designing, construction, or modification of public water systems.  DNR 
establishes a funding list for SDWLP projects and DOA allocates funding for those 
projects.
The bill creates a continuing appropriation from the general fund to the 
environmental improvement program for projects involving forgivable loans to 
private users of public water systems to replace lead service lines.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 80 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Environmental improvement fund revenue bonding limit
Current law authorizes the issuance of revenue bonds for the Clean Water 
Fund Program and the SDWLP under the environmental improvement fund but 
limits the principal amount of those revenue bonds to $2,597,400,000.  The bill 
increases that limit by $725,900,000, to $3,323,300,000.
Bonding for urban storm water, flood control, and riparian restoration
Under current law, the state may contract up to $61,600,000 in public debt to 
provide financial assistance for projects that manage urban storm water and runoff 
and for flood control and riparian restoration projects.  The bill increases the 
bonding authority for these projects by $11,000,000.
Bonding for nonpoint source water pollution abatement
Under current law, the state may contract up to $57,050,000 in public debt to 
provide financial assistance for projects that control pollution that comes from 
diffuse sources rather than a single concentrated discharge source in areas that 
qualify as high priority due to water quality problems.  The bill increases the 
bonding authority for these projects by $10,000,000.
Bonding for Great Lakes contaminated sediment removal
Under current law, the state may contract up to $40,000,000 in public debt to 
provide financial assistance for projects to remove contaminated sediment from 
Lake Michigan or Lake Superior, or a tributary of Lake Michigan or Lake Superior, 
if DNR has identified the body of water as being impaired by the sediment. The bill 
increases the bonding authority for sediment removal projects by $9,000,000.
AIR QUALITY
Fee for stationary source operation permits
Under current state and federal law, certain stationary sources that emit air 
contaminants are required to receive an operation permit from DNR.  Current law 
requires DNR to promulgate rules for the payment and collection of fees by the 
owner or operator of a stationary source for which an operation permit is required 
under the federal Clean Air Act.  The bill increases the fee from $35.71 per ton of 
emissions to $63.69 per ton of emissions.
GENERAL  ENVIRONMENT
Environmental impacts to covered communities
Under current law, DNR issues various permits for the operation of facilities 
as part of DNR [s regulation of air and water pollution and hazardous and solid 
waste.  Under the bill, DNR may not issue permits for those facilities located in 
covered communities unless the permit applicant 1) prepares a report assessing the 
environmental impact of the facility, 2) makes the report available to the public and 
provides the report to DNR and to the municipality in which the covered 
community is located, and 3) conducts a public hearing in the municipality in which 
the covered community is located.  Under the bill, Xcovered community Y means a 
census tract that is at or above the 65th percentile for share of households with a 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 81 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
household income at or below 200 percent of the federal poverty level and that meets 
any other criteria from a specified list.
Water resources account lapses
The bill lapses $1,000,000 to the conservation fund in fiscal year 2025 ]26.  Of 
that amount, $386,500 is lapsed from the DNR appropriation for state recreational 
boating projects that provide public access to inland waters; $436,600 is lapsed from 
the DNR appropriation for state recreational boating projects that provide public 
access to lakes; and $176,900 is lapsed from the DNR appropriation for river 
management activities for habitat and recreational projects on the Mississippi and 
lower St. Croix Rivers and for environmental and resource management studies on 
the Mississippi and lower St. Croix Rivers. 
FIREARMS AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Background checks on all transfers of firearms
Under current law, a federally licensed firearms dealer may not transfer a 
handgun until the dealer has requested DOJ to perform a background check on the 
prospective transferee to determine if he or she is prohibited from possessing a 
firearm under state or federal law.  The bill generally prohibits any person from 
transferring any firearm, including the frame or receiver of a firearm, unless the 
transfer occurs through a federally licensed firearms dealer and involves a 
background check of the prospective transferee.  Under the bill, the following are 
excepted from that prohibition: a transfer to a firearms dealer or to a law 
enforcement or armed services agency; a transfer of a firearm classified as antique; 
or a transfer that is by gift, bequest, or inheritance to a family member.  A person 
who is convicted of violating the prohibition is guilty of a misdemeanor and must be 
fined not less than $500 nor more than $10,000, may be imprisoned for not more 
than nine months, and may not possess a firearm for a period of two years.
Waiting period for handgun purchases
Under current law, a federally licensed firearms dealer may not transfer a 
handgun until the dealer has requested DOJ to perform a background check on the 
prospective transferee to determine if he or she is prohibited from possessing a 
firearm under state or federal law.  The bill prohibits the dealer from transferring a 
handgun to the transferee until 48 hours have passed since the firearms dealer 
requested the background check.
Self-assigned firearm exclusion
The bill requires DOJ to allow individuals to prohibit themselves from 
purchasing a firearm.  Under the bill, DOJ must maintain a database of individuals 
who voluntarily prohibit themselves from purchasing a firearm.  An individual may 
request inclusion in the database by submitting a request to DOJ that indicates the 
length of the prohibition they are requesting: a one-year, irrevocable prohibition; a 
five-year prohibition, the first year being irrevocable; or a 20-year prohibition, the 
first year being irrevocable.  During a revocable period, an individual may remove 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 82 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
the prohibition by submitting to DOJ a request for removal, and DOJ must wait 48 
hours and remove the individual from the list.  The bill also requires DOJ, when 
responding to a request for a background check from a licensed firearms dealer 
regarding an individual who is in the database, to indicate that the individual is 
prohibited from purchasing a firearm.
Extreme risk protection injunctions
Under current law, a person is prohibited from possessing a firearm, and must 
surrender all firearms, if the person is subject to a domestic abuse injunction, a 
child abuse injunction, or, in certain cases, a harassment or an individuals-at-risk 
injunction.  If a person surrenders a firearm because the person is subject to one of 
those injunctions, the firearm may not be returned to the person until a court 
determines that the injunction has been vacated or has expired and that the person 
is not otherwise prohibited from possessing a firearm.  A person who is prohibited 
from possessing a firearm under such an injunction is guilty of a Class G felony for 
violating the prohibition.
The bill creates an extreme risk protection temporary restraining order (TRO) 
and injunction to prohibit a person from possessing a firearm.  Under the bill, either 
a law enforcement officer or a family or household member of the person may file a 
petition with a court to request an extreme risk protection injunction.  The petition 
must allege facts that show that the person is substantially likely to injure themself 
or another if the person possesses a firearm.
Under the bill, the petitioner may request the court to consider first granting 
a temporary restraining order.  If the petitioner requests a TRO, the petitioner must 
include evidence that there is an immediate and present danger that the person 
may injure themself or another if the person possesses a firearm and that waiting 
for the injunction hearing increases the immediate and present danger.
If the petitioner requests a TRO, the court must hear the petition in an 
expedited manner.  The judge must issue a TRO if, after questioning the petitioner 
and witnesses or relying on affidavits, the judge determines that it is substantially 
likely that the petition for an injunction will be granted and the judge finds good 
cause to believe there is an immediate and present danger that the person will 
injure themself or another if the person has a firearm and that waiting for the 
injunction hearing may increase the immediate and present danger.  If the judge 
issues a TRO, the TRO is in effect until the injunction hearing, which must occur 
within 14 days of the TRO issuance.  The TRO must require a law enforcement 
officer to personally serve the person with the order and to require the person to 
immediately surrender all firearms in their possession.  If a law enforcement officer 
is unable to personally serve the person, then the TRO requires the person to 
surrender within 24 hours all firearms to a law enforcement officer or a firearms 
dealer and to provide the court a receipt indicating the surrender occurred.
At the injunction hearing, the court may grant an extreme risk protection 
injunction ordering the person to refrain from possessing a firearm and, if the 
person was not subject to a TRO, to surrender all firearms he or she possesses if the 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 83 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
court finds by clear and convincing evidence that the person is substantially likely 
to injure themself or another if the person possesses a firearm.  An extreme risk 
protection injunction is effective for up to one year and may be renewed.  A person 
who is subject to an extreme risk protection injunction may petition to vacate the 
injunction.  If a person surrenders a firearm because the person is subject to an 
extreme risk protection TRO or injunction, the firearm may not be returned to the 
person until a court determines that the TRO has expired or the injunction has 
been vacated or has expired and that the person is not otherwise prohibited from 
possessing a firearm.
A person who possesses a firearm while subject to an extreme risk protection 
TRO or injunction is guilty of a Class G felony.  In addition, a person who files a 
petition for an extreme risk protection injunction, knowing the information in the 
petition to be false, is guilty of the crime of false swearing, a Class H felony.
Persons prohibited from possessing a firearm following a conviction for a 
misdemeanor crime of domestic violence
Under federal law, a person is prohibited from possessing a firearm if he or she 
has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence.  Under state law, 
a person who is prohibited from possessing a firearm under federal or state law may 
not purchase a firearm or be issued a license to carry a concealed weapon.  State law 
requires DOJ, before approving a handgun purchase or issuing a license, to conduct 
a background check on the prospective purchaser or applicant to determine if the 
person is prohibited from possessing a firearm.  To determine if the person is 
prohibited under federal law, DOJ must review court records of all of the person [s 
criminal convictions to identify if any conviction qualifies as a misdemeanor crime 
of domestic violence under federal law.  DOJ must review the record to determine if 
the relationship between the offender and the victim qualifies as a domestic 
relationship and if the offender engaged in violent conduct when committing the 
crime.  The bill reorganizes two statutesthe crime of disorderly conduct and the 
definition of domestic abuseso that DOJ is able to more easily determine if a 
conviction qualifies as a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence under federal law.
First, under current law, a person is guilty of disorderly conduct if the person 
engages in violent, abusive, indecent, profane, boisterous, unreasonably loud, or 
otherwise disorderly conduct and if the conduct tends to cause or provoke a 
disturbance.  A person who has been convicted of disorderly conduct is prohibited 
from possessing a firearm if the disorderly conduct was a misdemeanor crime of 
domestic violencethat is, if the person engaged in violent conduct and if the 
relationship between the person and the victim was domestic.  The bill reorganizes 
the disorderly conduct statute to separate XviolentY conduct from the other types of 
disorderly conduct so that the court record clearly indicates that the crime was a 
violent crime.
Second, under current state law, Xdomestic abuse Y is defined as certain 
actions taken against a victim if the victim is related to the actor, has a child in 
common with the actor, or currently resides or has resided with the actor.  Unlike 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 84 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
state law, federal law does not define a crime as domestic violence if the only 
relationship is that the victim currently resides or has resided with the actor.  The 
bill reorganizes the statute defining domestic abuse so that a court record would 
indicate the exact nature of the relationship.  Therefore, under the bill, the court 
record would indicate when a person who is guilty under state law of a crime of 
domestic abuse is not guilty under federal law of a misdemeanor crime of domestic 
violence.
Undetectable firearms
The bill prohibits the manufacture, transportation, sale, possession, and 
carrying of firearms that cannot be detected by metal detectors or airport x-ray 
machines or scanners.  Federal law currently has a comparable prohibition; under 
the bill, the person would violate state law as well.  A person who violates the state 
prohibition is guilty of a Class G felony.
The bill prohibits the sale, posting, provision, or possession of plans for 
manufacturing an undetectable firearm.  A person who violates the prohibition is 
guilty of a Class H felony.
The bill also prohibits the possession of a frame or a receiver of a firearm that 
is not marked with a serial number.  A person who violates the prohibition is guilty 
of a Class I felony.
Prohibition on firearm accessories that accelerate the rate of fire
The bill prohibits the sale, manufacture, transfer, use, or possession of any 
firearm accessory that is designed to accelerate or functions to accelerate the rate of 
fire of a semiautomatic firearm.  A person who violates the prohibition is guilty of a 
Class G felony.
Reporting a lost or stolen firearm
Under the bill, a person who owns a firearm that is stolen or missing must 
report the theft or loss to a law enforcement agency within 24 hours of discovering 
the theft or loss.  A person who violates this requirement is guilty of a Class A 
misdemeanor for a first offense and guilty of a Class I felony for a subsequent 
offense.  A person who falsely reports a stolen or lost firearm is guilty of the 
current-law crime of obstructing an officer and is subject to a fine of up to $10,000 
or imprisonment of up to nine months, or both.
The bill also requires a person who commercially sells or transfers a firearm to 
provide the purchaser or transferee a written notice of the requirement, created in 
the bill, to report a theft or loss of a firearm within 24 hours of discovering it.  A 
seller or transferor who violates this requirement is subject to a fine of up to $500 or 
imprisonment for up to 30 days, or both.
Containers and trigger locks at sale
The bill requires a person who commercially sells or transfers a firearm to 
provide the purchaser or transferee with either a secure, lockable container that is 
designed to store a firearm or a trigger lock for the firearm.  A seller or transferor 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 85 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
who violates this requirement is subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for 
up to 30 days, or both.
Firearms in unattended retail facilities
The bill requires that a retail business that sells firearms must secure all 
firearms when the business is unattended.  Under the bill, the firearms must be 
secured in one of the following ways: in a locked fireproof safe, locked steel gun 
cabinet, or vault; in a steel-framed display case with specified reinforcements; with 
a hardened steel rod or cable; in a windowless, internal room that is equipped with 
a steel security door; or behind a steel roll-down door or security gate.
Storing a firearm when a child is present
The bill prohibits a person from storing or leaving a firearm at his or her 
residence if the person resides with a child who is under the age of 18, or knows a 
child who is under the age of 18 will be present in the residence, unless the firearm 
is in a securely locked box or container or other secure locked location or has a 
trigger lock engaged.  A person who violates this prohibition is guilty of a Class A 
misdemeanor for a first offense and a Class I felony for a subsequent offense.  This 
prohibition replaces the current law that penalizes a person who recklessly stores 
or leaves a loaded firearm within reach of a child who is under 14 if the child 
obtains it and does one of the following: 1) discharges the firearm and causes bodily 
harm or death (Class A misdemeanor); or 2) possesses or exhibits the firearm in a 
public place or endangers public safety (Class C misdemeanor).
Storing a firearm in a residence at which a prohibited person resides
The bill requires a person to store any firearm he or she possesses in a securely 
locked box or container or other secure locked location or with a trigger lock 
engaged if the person resides with a person who is prohibited from possessing a 
firearm under state law.  A person who violates this requirement is guilty of a Class 
A misdemeanor for a first offense and a Class I felony for a repeat offense.  State law 
currently prohibits the following persons from possessing a firearm: persons who 
have been convicted of a felony; persons found not guilty of a felony by reason of 
mental disease or defect; persons who are subject to certain injunctions such as a 
domestic abuse or child abuse injunction or, in certain cases, a harassment or an 
individuals-at-risk injunction; and persons who have been involuntarily committed 
for mental health treatment and ordered not to possess a firearm.
GAMBLING
Bingo and raffle fees
Under current law, an organization that conducts bingo and raffles must 
obtain a license from the Division of Gaming within DOA and pay all related license 
fees.  Bingo licensees, generally, must pay a $10 license fee for each bingo occasion, 
meaning a single gathering or session at which a series of successive bingo games is 
played, and a $5 license fee for an annual license for the designated member of the 
organization responsible for the proper utilization of gross receipts.  A bingo 
licensee that is a community-based residential facility, a senior citizen community 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 86 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
center, or an adult family home that conducts bingo as a recreational or social 
activity must pay a $5 license fee.  Raffle licensees must pay a $25 license fee.  The 
bill doubles all bingo and raffle license fees.
Also, under current law, a 1 percent occupational tax is imposed on the first 
$30,000 in gross receipts derived from the conduct of bingo by a licensed 
organization in a year.  In gross receipts during a year that exceed $30,000, a 2 
percent occupational tax is imposed.  Under the bill, a 2 percent occupational tax is 
imposed on all gross receipts derived from the conduct of bingo by a licensed 
organization.
Gaming regulation and enforcement
Under current law and tribal gaming compacts, tribes make payments to the 
state to reimburse the state for costs relating to the regulation of certain gaming 
activities.  This revenue, called Indian gaming receipts, may be expended for 
various purposes.  The bill requires DOA to transfer portions of Indian gaming 
receipts to DOR to support DOR [s gaming regulation and enforcement activities. 
GENDER NEUTRAL TERMINOLOGY
Making references in the statutes gender neutral
The bill recognizes same-sex marriage by making references in the statutes to 
spouses gender-neutral, with the intent of harmonizing the Wisconsin Statutes 
with the holding of the U.S. Supreme Court in Obergefell v. Hodges , 135 S. Ct. 2584, 
192 L. Ed. 2d 609 (2015), which recognizes that same-sex couples have a 
fundamental constitutional right to marriage.  The bill also recognizes legal 
parentage for same-sex couples under certain circumstances and adopts gender-
neutral parentage terminology.
The bill provides that marriage may be contracted between persons of the 
same sex and confers the same rights and responsibilities on married persons of the 
same sex that married persons of different sexes have under current law.  The bill 
defines XspouseY as a person who is legally married to another person of the same 
sex or a different sex and replaces every reference to Xhusband Y or XwifeY in current 
law with Xspouse.Y  The bill makes applicable to married persons of the same sex all 
provisions under current law that apply to married persons of different sexes.  
These provisions relate to such diverse areas of the law as income tax, marital 
property, inheritance rights, divorce, child and spousal support, insurance 
coverage, family and spousal recreational licenses, consent to conduct an autopsy, 
domestic abuse, and eligibility for various types of benefits, such as retirement or 
death benefits and medical assistance.
In addition to making statutory references to spouses gender-neutral, the bill 
specifies ways in which married couples of the same sex may be the legal parents of 
a child and, with some exceptions, makes current references in the statutes to 
XmotherY and Xfather,Y and related terms, gender-neutral.
Under current law, all of the following may adopt a child:  a husband and wife 
jointly, a husband or wife whose spouse is the parent of the child, and an unmarried 
adult.  Because the bill makes references in the statutes to spouses gender-neutral, 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 87 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
same-sex spouses jointly may adopt a child and become the legal parents of the 
child, and a same-sex spouse of a person who is the parent of a minor child may 
adopt the child and become the legal parent of his or her spouse [s child.
Under current law, if a woman is artificially inseminated under the 
supervision of a physician with semen donated by a man who is not her husband 
and the husband consents in writing to the artificial insemination of his wife, the 
husband is the natural father of any child conceived.  Under the bill, one spouse may 
also consent to the artificial insemination of his or her spouse and is the natural 
parent of the child conceived.  The artificial insemination is not required to take 
place under the supervision of a physician, but, if it does not, the semen used for the 
insemination must have been obtained from a sperm bank.
Under current law, a man is presumed to be the father of a child if he and the 
child[s natural mother 1) were married to each other when the child was conceived 
or born or 2) married each other after the child was born but had a relationship 
with each other when the child was conceived and no other man has been 
adjudicated to be the father or is presumed to be the father because the man was 
married to the mother when the child was conceived or born.  The paternity 
presumption may be rebutted in a legal action or proceeding by the results of a 
genetic test showing that the statistical probability of another man [s parentage is 
99.0 percent or higher.  The bill expands this presumption into a parentage 
presumption, so that a person is presumed to be the natural parent of a child if he or 
she 1) was married to the child [s established natural parent when the child was 
conceived or born or 2) married the child [s established natural parent after the 
child was born but had a relationship with the established natural parent when the 
child was conceived and no person has been adjudicated to be the father and no 
other person is presumed to be the child [s parent because he or she was married to 
the mother when the child was conceived or born.  The parentage presumption may 
still be rebutted by the results of a genetic test showing that the statistical 
probability of another person [s parentage is 99.0 percent or higher.  Expanding on 
current law, the bill allows for a paternity action to be brought for the purpose of 
rebutting the parentage presumption, regardless of whether that presumption 
applies to a male or female spouse.
Current law provides that a mother and a man may sign a statement 
acknowledging paternity and file it with the state registrar.  If the state registrar 
has received such a statement, the man is presumed to be the father of the child.  
Under current law, either person who has signed a statement acknowledging 
paternity may rescind the statement before an order is filed in an action affecting 
the family concerning the child or within 60 days after the statement is filed, 
whichever occurs first.  Under current law, a man who has filed a statement 
acknowledging paternity that is not rescinded within the time period is conclusively 
determined to be the father of the child.  The bill provides that two people may sign 
a statement acknowledging parentage and file it with the state registrar.  If the 
state registrar has received such a statement, the people who have signed the 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 88 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
statement are presumed to be the parents of the child.  Under the bill, a statement 
acknowledging parentage that is not rescinded conclusively establishes parentage 
with regard to the person who did not give birth to the child and who signed the 
statement.
The bill defines Xnatural parent Y as a parent of a child who is not an adoptive 
parent, whether the parent is biologically related to the child or not.  Thus, a person 
who is a biological parent, a parent by consenting to the artificial insemination of 
his or her spouse, or a parent under the parentage presumption is a natural parent 
of a child.  The definition applies throughout the statutes wherever the term 
Xnatural parent Y is used.  In addition, the bill expands some references in the 
statutes to Xbiological parent Y by changing the reference to Xnatural parent. Y
Gender neutral references on birth certificates
Generally, the bill substitutes the term XspouseY for Xhusband Y in the birth 
certificate statutes and enters the spouse, instead of the husband, of the person who 
has given birth on the birth certificate at times when a husband would currently be 
entered on a birth certificate.  The name of the person who has given birth is 
entered on a birth certificate when the person gives birth to a child, and current law 
specifies when another name should be entered on the birth certificate.  Current 
law requires that if a birth mother is married at any time from the conception to the 
birth of a child, then her husband [s name is entered on the birth certificate as the 
legal father of the child.  Under the bill, if a person who gives birth is married at any 
time from the conception to the birth of the child, then that person [s spouse [s name 
is entered as a legal parent of the child.  The bill also specifies that, in the instance 
that a second parent [s name is initially omitted from the birth certificate, if the 
state registrar receives a signed acknowledgement of parentage by people presumed 
to be parents because the two people married after the birth of the child, the two 
people had a relationship during the time the child was conceived, no person is 
adjudicated to be the father, and no other person is presumed to be the parent, then 
the state registrar must enter the name of the spouse of the person who gave birth 
as a parent on the birth certificate.
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
PUBLIC  ASSISTANCE
Presumptive eligibility for Wisconsin Shares
Under current law, an individual is eligible to receive a child care subsidy 
under the Wisconsin Shares program if DCF determines that the individual meets 
certain requirements, including requirements related to age of the child, income of 
the individual, and the individual [s participation in certain eligible activities.
Under the bill, DCF may find an individual presumptively eligible for a child 
care subsidy while DCF verifies the individual [s actual eligibility.  If DCF finds an 
individual presumptively eligible for the child care subsidy, DCF must immediately 
begin issuing benefits to the individual.  If DCF determines that the individual is 
actually ineligible, DCF must discontinue issuing benefits.  To be found 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 89 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
presumptively eligible for the subsidies, an individual must submit a report to DCF 
that includes information establishing the individual [s actual eligibility and, based 
on the report, DCF must be able to plausibly assume that the individual is actually 
eligible for the subsidies.
Wisconsin Shares copayment increase structure
Under current law, if an individual is already receiving a Wisconsin Shares 
child care subsidy and the individual [s family income exceeds the maximum eligible 
income of 200 percent of the poverty line, the individual will continue to be eligible 
for the subsidy until or unless the individual [s family income exceeds 85 percent of 
the state median income.  Until that time when the individual [s income exceeds 85 
percent of the state median income, the individual [s copayment minimum for the 
Wisconsin Shares child care subsidy will increase on a sliding scale based on the 
amount that the individual [s family income increases.
The bill eliminates this copayment increase structure in order to comply with 
federal rule 89 FR 15366, effective April 30, 2024, which establishes that 
copayments for individuals receiving a child care subsidy from the federal Child 
Care and Development Fund may not exceed 7 percent of family income.  Under the 
bill, in general, if an individual is already receiving a Wisconsin Shares child care 
subsidy and the individual [s family income exceeds 85 percent of the state median 
income, the individual is no longer eligible for the Wisconsin Shares child care 
subsidy.
Wisconsin Shares like-kin update
2023 Wisconsin Act 119 extended kinship care eligibility to like-kin, in 
addition to relatives of a child.  XLike-kin Y is defined under current law as an 
individual who has a significant emotional relationship with a child or the child [s 
family that is similar to a familial relationship and who is not and has not 
previously been the child [s licensed foster parent and, for an Indian child, includes 
individuals identified by the child [s tribe according to tribal tradition, custom or 
resolution, code, or law.  The bill conforms language under the child care subsidy 
program, Wisconsin Shares, to this change so that references to kinship care are not 
limited to relatives.
Child care quality improvement program
The bill authorizes DCF to establish a program for making monthly payments 
and monthly per-child payments to certified child care providers, licensed child care 
centers, and child care programs established or contracted for by a school board.  
This new payment program is in addition to the current law system for providing 
child care payments under Wisconsin Shares.  The bill requires DCF to promulgate 
rules to implement the program, including establishing eligibility requirements 
and payment amounts and setting requirements for how recipients may use the 
payments, and authorizes DCF to promulgate these rules as emergency rules.  The 
bill funds the program through a new appropriation and by allocating federal 
moneys, including child care development funds and moneys received under the 
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) block grant program.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 90 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
The bill eliminates the current law method by which DCF may modify 
maximum payment rates for child care providers under Wisconsin Shares based on 
a child care provider [s rating under the quality rating system known as YoungStar.
Wisconsin Shares is a part of the Wisconsin Works program under current 
law, which DCF administers and which provides work experience and benefits for 
low-income custodial parents who are at least 18 years old.  Under current law, an 
individual who is the parent of a child under the age of 13 or, if the child is disabled, 
under the age of 19, who needs child care services to participate in various 
education or work activities, and who satisfies other eligibility criteria may receive 
a child care subsidy for child care services under Wisconsin Shares.
Expanded Transform Milwaukee Jobs and Transitional Jobs programs
Under current law, DCF administers a temporary wage subsidy program for 
individuals who meet all of the following qualifications: 1) are at least 18 years old 
and, if over 25 years old, are the parent or primary relative caregiver of a child; 2) 
have a household income below 150 percent of the federal poverty line; 3) have been 
unemployed for at least four weeks; 4) are ineligible to receive unemployment 
insurance benefits; 5) are not participating in a Wisconsin Works employment 
position; and 6) satisfy applicable substance abuse screening, testing, and 
treatment requirements.  Under current law, funding is directed first to the 
program as established in Milwaukee County, called the Transform Milwaukee 
Jobs program, and next, if funding is available, to the program as established 
outside of Milwaukee County, called the Transitional Jobs program.
The bill provides funding for and requires DCF to establish the Expanded 
Transform Milwaukee Jobs program and Transitional Jobs program, which under 
the bill must be identical to the Transform Milwaukee Jobs program and 
Transitional Jobs program except that, to be eligible, an individual is not required 
to have an annual household income below 150 percent of the federal poverty line 
and, if over 25 years of age, is not required to be a parent or primary relative 
caregiver of a child.
Transform Milwaukee Jobs and Transitional Jobs programs
The bill modifies the qualifications for participating in the Transform 
Milwaukee Jobs and Transitional Jobs programs by removing the requirement that 
the individual has been unemployed for at least four weeks, and by specifying that 
anyone who is not receiving unemployment insurance benefits, regardless of their 
eligibility to receive those benefits, may participate.
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families
Under current law, DCF allocates specific amounts of federal moneys, 
including child care development funds and moneys received under the TANF block 
grant program, for various public assistance programs.  Under the bill, TANF 
funding allocations are changed in the following ways, as compared to the funding 
allocation in the 2023 ]25 fiscal biennium:
1.  For homeless case management services grants, total funding is doubled.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 91 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
2.  For the administration of public assistance programs and collection of 
public assistance overpayments, total funding is increased by 33 percent.
3.  For emergency assistance payments, total funding is increased by 71 
percent.
4.  For grants to Wisconsin Trust Account Foundation, Inc., for distribution to 
programs that provide civil legal services to low-income families, funding is 
increased by 800 percent, from $500,000 per fiscal year to $4,500,000 per fiscal 
year.
5.  For the Transform Milwaukee and Transitional Jobs programs, total 
funding is increased by 31 percent.
6.  For the Jobs for America [s Graduates program, total funding is doubled.
7.  For direct child care services, child care administration, and child care 
improvement programs, total funding is increased by 14 percent.
8.  For the support of the dependent children of recipients of supplemental 
security income, funding is increased by 75 percent per fiscal year from the funding 
in fiscal year 2024 ]25.
9.  For kinship care and long-term kinship care payments and kinship care 
administration, total funding is increased by 47 percent. 
10.  For grants to the Boys and Girls Clubs of America, funding is increased by 
239 percent, from $2,807,000 in each fiscal year to $9,507,000 in each fiscal year.
11.  For the earned income tax credit supplement, total funding is increased by 
60 percent.
12.  For all other programs under TANF, funding is continued with a funding 
change of 6 percent or less.
The bill additionally allocates $3,472,000 in fiscal year 2025 ]26 and 
$6,944,000 in fiscal year 2026 ]27 for a child support debt reduction program and 
eliminates an allocation of $500,000 per fiscal year for skills enhancement grants.
Civil legal services grants
Under current law, DCF provides funding to the Wisconsin Trust Account 
Foundation, Inc. (the foundation), to provide civil legal services to TANF-eligible 
individuals in two ways:
1.  DCF provides up to $100,000 in each fiscal year in matching funds to the 
foundation for the provision of civil legal services to eligible individuals.  This grant 
does not specify what types of civil legal services may be provided.
2.  DCF provides a $500,000 grant in each fiscal year to the foundation to 
provide grants to programs, up to $75,000 each, that provide certain legal services 
to eligible individuals.  The legal services provided through this grant are limited to 
legal services in civil matters related to domestic abuse or sexual abuse or to 
restraining orders or injunctions for individuals at risk.
The bill removes the grant that requires matching funds and increases the 
grant to provide certain legal services to eligible individuals to $4,500,000 per fiscal 
year.  Under the bill, the foundation may additionally use this funding to provide to 
eligible individuals civil legal services related to eviction.  The bill removes the 
$75,000 cap on grants provided by the foundation to individual programs.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 92 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Child support debt reduction
The bill creates a program administered by DCF to provide debt reduction for 
child support.  Under the bill, if a noncustodial parent completes an eligible 
employment program, as determined by DCF by rule, and the custodial parent 
agrees to a reduction, the noncustodial parent is eligible for child support debt 
reduction in an amount up to $1,500.  Under the bill, a parent may not qualify for 
the debt reduction more than once in any 12-month period.
Child care water safety grant program
The bill requires DCF to award a grant each fiscal year to Community Water 
Services, Inc., to help child care providers access safe drinking water.
Grants for services for homeless and runaway youth
The bill increases the limit on the amount that DCF may award in each fiscal 
year to support programs that provide services for homeless and runaway youth 
from $400,000 to $2,872,800.
Tribal family services grants and funding for out-of-home-care placements 
by tribal courts
Current law uses Indian gaming receipts to fund tribal family service grants 
and unexpected or unusually high-cost placements of Indian children by tribal 
courts in foster homes, group homes, or residential care centers for children and 
youth, in the homes of a relative other than a parent, or in a supervised 
independent living arrangement (out-of-home care).  The bill appropriates GPR 
moneys for those purposes as well.
Healthy eating incentive pilot program
The bill modifies certain provisions of the healthy eating incentive pilot 
program.  The bill defines an eligible retailer, for purposes of the program, to be a 
retailer authorized to participate in the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
Program, also known as the federal food stamp program.  Under current law, DHS 
must select, through a competitive selection process, one or more nonprofit 
organizations to administer the program statewide.  The bill modifies that 
requirement, instead requiring only that DHS select one or more third-party 
organizations through the competitive selection process.  Current law requires DHS 
to seek any available federal matching moneys from the Gus Schumacher Nutrition 
Incentive Program to fund the program.  The bill specifies that DHS must require 
any organization chosen to administer the program to fulfill that requirement to 
seek federal matching funds.  Under the bill, a third-party organization chosen to 
administer the program may retain for administrative purposes an amount not to 
exceed 33 percent of the total contracted amount or the applicable cap found in 
federal law or guidance, whichever is lower.
Electronic benefit transfer processing program
The bill requires DHS to provide electronic benefit transfer and credit and 
debit card processing equipment and services to farmers [ markets and farmers who 
sell directly to consumers as a payment processing program.  The bill specifies that 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 93 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
the electronic benefit transfer processing equipment and services must include 
equipment and services for the state food stamp program, which is known as 
FoodShare.  Under the bill, the vendor that processes the electronic benefit transfer 
and credit and debit card transactions must also process any local purchasing 
incentives.
Eliminating FSET drug testing requirement
2015 Wisconsin Act 55 required DHS to promulgate rules to develop and 
implement a drug screening, testing, and treatment policy, which DHS 
promulgated as ch. DHS 38, Wis. Adm. Code.  2017 Wisconsin Act 370 incorporated 
into statutes ch. DHS 38, relating to drug screening, testing, and treatment for 
recipients of the FoodShare employment and training program (FSET).  FoodShare 
provides financial assistance to purchase food items to individuals who have 
limited financial resources.  The bill eliminates the requirement to implement a 
drug screening, testing, and treatment policy and removes from the statutes the 
language incorporated by Act 370.
FSET work requirement
Current law requires DHS to require all able-bodied adults, with some limited 
exceptions, who seek benefits from the FoodShare program to participate in the 
FoodShare employment and training program, known as FSET, unless they are 
already employed.  The bill eliminates that requirement for able-bodied adults with 
dependents while retaining the requirement for able-bodied adults without 
dependents.
Eliminating FSET pay-for-performance requirement
Current law requires DHS to create and implement a payment system based 
on performance for entities that perform administrative functions for the 
FoodShare employment and training program, known as FSET.  DHS must base 
the pay-for-performance system on performance outcomes specified in current law.  
The bill eliminates the requirement for DHS to create a pay-for-performance system 
for FSET vendors.
EMERGENCY  SERVICES
Emergency medical services funding assistance
Under current law, DHS must annually distribute grants for vehicles, 
supplies, equipment, medication, or training to certain emergency medical 
responder departments and certain ambulance service providers under a funding 
formula consisting of an identical base amount plus a supplemental amount based 
upon the population of the primary service area or contract area.  Under the bill, 
the funding formula must consist of a base amount based on provider type and a 
supplemental amount based upon the population or other relevant factors of the 
primary service area or contract area.  Currently, grant recipients may not expend 
more than 15 percent of a grant on nondurable or disposable medical supplies or 
equipment and medications.  The bill removes the limitation for equipment.
In addition, current law requires DHS to distribute grants to emergency 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 94 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
medical responder departments and certain ambulance service providers to pay for 
certain training, licensure, and certification requirements, including 
administration of the licensure examination for emergency medical technicians.  
Under the bill, the grants may be used to pay for administration of the licensure 
examination for any type of emergency medical services practitioner, not just 
emergency medical technicians.
Emergency medical services grant funding
The bill requires DHS to award grants each fiscal year to municipalities to 
improve or expand emergency medical services and creates an appropriation for 
that purpose.  From the moneys appropriated each fiscal year, DHS must award 25 
percent to municipalities to support the development of 24-7 paid service models in 
accordance with criteria developed by DHS.  DHS must award the remainder using 
a formula consisting of a base amount, determined by DHS, for each municipality, 
plus a supplemental amount based on the municipality [s population.
MEDICAL  ASSISTANCE
Medicaid expansion; elimination of childless adults demonstration project
BadgerCare Plus and BadgerCare Plus Core are programs under the state [s 
Medical Assistance program, which provides health services to individuals who 
have limited financial resources.  The federal Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act allows a state to receive an enhanced federal medical assistance 
percentage payment for providing benefits to certain individuals through a state [s 
Medical Assistance program.  The bill changes the family income eligibility level to 
up to 133 percent of the federal poverty line for parents and caretaker relatives 
under BadgerCare Plus and for childless adults currently covered under 
BadgerCare Plus Core and for those who are incorporated into BadgerCare Plus in 
the bill.  The bill requires DHS to comply with all federal requirements and to 
request any amendment to the state Medical Assistance plan, waiver of Medicaid 
law, or other federal approval necessary to qualify for the highest available 
enhanced federal medical assistance percentage for childless adults under the 
BadgerCare Plus program.
Under current law, certain parents and caretaker relatives with incomes of not 
more than 100 percent of the federal poverty line, before a 5 percent income 
disregard is applied, are eligible for BadgerCare Plus benefits.  Under current law, 
childless adults who 1) are under age 65; 2) have family incomes that do not exceed 
100 percent of the federal poverty line, before a 5 percent income disregard is 
applied; and 3) are not otherwise eligible for Medical Assistance, including 
BadgerCare Plus, are eligible for benefits under BadgerCare Plus Core.  The bill 
eliminates the childless adults demonstration project, known as BadgerCare Plus 
Core, as a separate program on July 1, 2025.
Current law, as created by 2017 Wisconsin Act 370, requires that DHS 
implement the BadgerCare Reform waiver as it relates to childless adults as 
approved by the federal Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) effective October 31, 2018.  The 2015 ]17 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 95 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
and 2017 ]19 biennial budget acts required DHS to submit a waiver request to the 
federal Department of Health and Human Services authorizing DHS to take 
certain actions, including imposing premiums on, requiring a health risk 
assessment of, and limiting the time of eligibility for recipients of BadgerCare Plus 
under the childless adults demonstration project waiver.  Act 370 required DHS to 
implement the childless adults BadgerCare Reform waiver by no later than 
November 1, 2019.  If JCF determines that DHS has not complied with the 
implementation deadline, has not made sufficient progress in implementing the 
BadgerCare Reform waiver, or has not complied with other requirements relating to 
approved waiver implementation, Act 370 allows JCF to reduce from moneys 
allocated for state operations or administrative functions DHS [s appropriation or 
expenditure authority, whichever is applicable, or change the authorized level of 
full-time equivalent positions for DHS related to the Medical Assistance program.  
In April 2021, CMS withdrew approval of the community engagement 
requirements that had previously been approved in the October 31, 2018, 
BadgerCare Reform waiver.  The 2018 waiver was set to expire December 31, 2023, 
but CMS approved a temporary extension to December 31, 2024.  As part of the 
approval of that extension, CMS removed authority for certain elements of the 
demonstration project, including disenrollment lockout periods, monthly 
premiums, health behavior assessments, health risk assessments, and the 
requirement for beneficiaries to answer questions about substance use treatment 
needs in order to remain eligible.  On October 29, 2024, CMS approved DHS [s 
request for an extension of the BadgerCare Reform waiver through December 31, 
2029, subject to the same limitations set forth in the 2023 temporary extension.
The bill eliminates the statutory implementation requirement for the 
BadgerCare Reform waiver, including the deadline and penalties, eliminates the 
statutory requirement for DHS to seek the waiver, and allows DHS to modify or 
withdraw the waiver.
Postpartum Medical Assistance coverage
The bill requires DHS to seek approval from the federal Department of Health 
and Human Services to extend until the last day of the month in which the 365th 
day after the last day of the pregnancy falls Medical Assistance benefits to women 
who are eligible for those benefits when pregnant.  Currently, postpartum women 
are eligible for Medical Assistance benefits until the last day of the month in which 
the 60th day after the last day of the pregnancy falls.  2021 Wisconsin Act 58 
required DHS to seek approval from the federal Department of Health and Human 
Services to extend these postpartum Medical Assistance benefits until the last day 
of the month in which the 90th day after the last day of the pregnancy falls.  On 
June 3, 2022, DHS filed a Section 1115 Demonstration Waiver application with the 
federal Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to extend postpartum coverage 
for eligible Medical Assistance recipients, as required by 2021 Wisconsin Act 58.
Determination of eligibility for Medical Assistance or subsidized health 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 96 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
insurance coverage by indicating interest on an individual income tax 
return
The bill requires DOR to include questions on an individual income tax return 
to determine whether the taxpayer or any member of the taxpayer [s household does 
not have health care coverage under a health insurance policy or health plan.  If the 
taxpayer indicates that the taxpayer or any member of the taxpayer [s household 
does not have health care coverage, DOR must, at the taxpayer [s request, forward 
the taxpayer [s response to DHS to have DHS evaluate whether the taxpayer or a 
member of the taxpayer [s household is eligible to enroll in the Medical Assistance 
program or whether the taxpayer or a member of the taxpayer [s household is 
eligible for subsidized health insurance coverage through a health insurance 
marketplace for qualified health plans under the federal Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act.  The bill specifies that DHS may not use any information 
provided to determine that the individual is ineligible to enroll in the Medical 
Assistance program.
Medical Assistance waiver for health-related social needs
The bill directs DHS to request a waiver from the federal Department of 
Health and Human Services to provide reimbursement for services for health-
related social needs under the Medical Assistance program.  Under the bill, DHS 
must provide reimbursement for those services if the waiver is granted.
Payment for school medical services
Under current law, if a school district or a cooperative educational service 
agency elects to provide school medical services and meets certain requirements, 
DHS is required to reimburse the school district or cooperative educational service 
agency for 60 percent of the federal share of allowable charges for the school medical 
services that they provide.  If the Wisconsin Center for the Blind and Visually 
Impaired or the Wisconsin Educational Services Program for the Deaf and Hard of 
Hearing elects to provide school medical services and meets certain other 
requirements, DHS is also required to reimburse DPI for 60 percent of the federal 
share of allowable charges for the school medical services that the Wisconsin Center 
for the Blind and Visually Impaired or the Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing provide.  Further, under current law, 
DHS is required to reimburse school districts, cooperative educational service 
agencies, and DPI, on behalf of the Wisconsin Center for the Blind and Visually 
Impaired or the Wisconsin Educational Services Program for the Deaf and Hard of 
Hearing, for 90 percent of the federal share of allowable school medical services 
administrative costs.
The bill increases the amount that DHS is required to reimburse a school 
district, cooperative educational service agency, and DPI, on behalf of the Wisconsin 
Center for the Blind and Visually Impaired or the Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing, for provided school medical services to 
100 percent of the federal share of allowable charges for the school medical services. 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 97 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
The bill also increases the amount that DHS is required to reimburse a school 
district, cooperative educational service agency, and DPI, on behalf of the Wisconsin 
Center for the Blind and Visually Impaired or the Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing, to 100 percent of the federal share of 
allowable school medical services administrative costs.
Certified peer specialist services
The bill requires DHS to provide as a benefit and reimburse services provided 
by certified peer specialists under the Medical Assistance program.  The bill also 
adds services provided by certified peer specialists to a DHS program to coordinate 
and continue care following a substance use overdose.  A Xcertified peer specialist, Y 
as defined in the bill, is an individual who has experience in the mental health and 
substance use services system, who is trained to provide support to others, and who 
has received peer specialist or parent peer specialist certification.
The bill requires DHS to reimburse under the Medical Assistance program a 
certified peer specialist service that meets all of the following criteria:  the recipient 
of the certified peer specialist service is in treatment for or recovery from mental 
illness or a substance use disorder; the certified peer specialist provides the service 
under the supervision of a competent mental health professional and in 
coordination and accordance with the recipient [s individual treatment plan and 
treatment goals; and the certified peer specialist completes the training 
requirements specified by DHS.
Medical Assistance coverage of doula services
The bill requires DHS to request any necessary waiver or amendment to the 
state Medical Assistance plan to allow Medical Assistance reimbursement for doula 
services and, if any necessary waiver or amendment is approved, directs DHS to 
reimburse certified doulas for doula services provided to Medical Assistance 
recipients.  Doula services consist of childbirth education and support services, 
including emotional and physical support provided during pregnancy, labor, birth, 
and the postpartum period.
Medical Assistance coverage for incarcerated individuals
The bill authorizes DHS to submit a request to the secretary of the federal 
Department of Health and Human Services for a waiver of federal Medicaid law to 
conduct a demonstration project allowing prerelease coverage to incarcerated 
individuals for certain services under the Medical Assistance program for up to 90 
days before release if the individual is otherwise eligible for coverage under the 
Medical Assistance program.  The bill provides that if the waiver is approved, DHS 
may provide reimbursement under the Medical Assistance program for both the 
federal and nonfederal share of services, including case management services, 
provided to incarcerated individuals under the waiver.
Medical assistance coverage of nonsurgical treatment for TMJ disorder
Under current law, the Medical Assistance program provides coverage for 
certain dental services.  Under the bill, this coverage includes nonsurgical 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 98 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
treatment of temporomandibular joint disorder, commonly known as XTMJ 
disorder. Y
Statewide contract for dental benefits
The bill requires DHS to submit any necessary request to the federal 
Department of Health and Human Services for a state plan amendment or waiver 
of federal Medicaid law to implement a statewide contract for dental benefits 
through a single vendor under the Medical Assistance program.  If the federal 
government disapproves the amendment or waiver request, the bill provides that 
DHS is not required to implement the statewide contract.
Medical Assistance coverage for detoxification and stabilization services
The bill requires DHS to provide reimbursement for detoxification and 
stabilization services under the Medical Assistance program.  The bill requires 
DHS to submit to the federal government any request for federal approval 
necessary to provide the reimbursement for detoxification and stabilization 
services under the Medical Assistance program, and makes reimbursement 
contingent upon any needed federal approval.  The bill defines detoxification and 
stabilization services as adult residential integrated behavioral health stabilization 
service, residential withdrawal management service, or residential intoxication 
monitoring service.
The bill also requires DHS, through the community grants program it is 
required to administer, to distribute not more than $500,000 each fiscal year for 
grants to community-based withdrawal centers, including those certified as a 
residential intoxication monitoring service, residential withdrawal management 
service, or adult residential integrated behavioral health stabilization service.
Medical Assistance payments to rural health clinics
The bill modifies the methodology DHS must use for reimbursing rural health 
clinics for services provided to Medical Assistance recipients.  Currently, DHS 
reimburses rural health clinics for the reasonable costs of the services they provide.  
Under the bill, for services provided on or after July 1, 2026, DHS must reimburse 
rural health clinics using a payment methodology based on the federal Medicaid 
prospective payment system, which directs that reimbursement be provided to a 
rural health clinic at a rate that is based upon the rural health clinic [s per-visit 
costs in previous years, adjusted for medical cost inflation and for any change in the 
scope of services furnished by the rural health clinic.
Elimination of birth cost recovery
Under current law, as a condition of eligibility for benefits under the Medical 
Assistance program, a person is deemed to have assigned to the state by applying 
for or receiving benefits under the Medical Assistance program any rights to 
medical support or other payment of medical expenses from any other person.  
Current law further provides that if a mother of a child was enrolled in a health 
maintenance organization or other prepaid health care plan under the Medical 
Assistance program at the time of the child [s birth, then birth expenses that were 
incurred by the health maintenance organization or other prepaid health care plan 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 99 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
may be recovered by the state.  The bill provides that no birth expenses may be 
recovered by the state under this process.
Eliminating legislative oversight of federal waivers.
Current law, as created by 2017 Wisconsin Act 370, prohibits DHS from 
submitting a request to a federal agency for a waiver or renewal, modification, 
withdrawal, suspension, or termination of a waiver of federal law or rules or for 
authorization to implement a pilot program or demonstration project unless 
legislation has been enacted specifically directing the submission of the request.  
For any legislation that requires submission of a request that has not yet been 
submitted, current law requires DHS to submit an implementation plan to JCF and 
submit its final proposed request to JCF for approval.  Current law requires DHS to 
take certain actions and submit monthly progress reports to JCF once a request has 
been submitted to the federal agency.  When the federal agency has approved the 
request in whole or in part and the request has not been fully implemented, current 
law requires DHS to submit its final implementation plan to JCF for approval.  
Current law allows JCF to reduce from moneys allocated for state operations or 
administrative functions the agency [s appropriation or expenditure authority or 
change the authorized level of full-time equivalent positions for the agency related 
to the program for which the request is required to be submitted if JCF determines 
that the state agency has not made sufficient progress or is not acting in accordance 
with the enacted legislation requiring the submission of the request.  The bill 
eliminates the requirement that legislation be enacted in order for DHS to submit a 
request for a waiver or renewal, modification, withdrawal, suspension, or 
termination of a waiver of federal law or rules or for authorization to implement a 
pilot program or demonstration project.  The bill also eliminates the legislative 
review procedure for requests for waivers, pilot programs, or demonstration projects 
required by current law created by Act 370.
Eliminating legislative review of Medicaid state plan amendments
The Medical Assistance program is the state [s Medicaid program and is jointly 
funded by the state and federal governments through a detailed agreement known 
as the state plan.  Under current law created by 2017 Wisconsin Act 370, DHS is 
required to submit to JCF under its passive review process any proposed Medical 
Assistance state plan amendment and any proposed change to a reimbursement 
rate for or supplemental payment to a Medical Assistance provider that has an 
expected fiscal effect of $7,500,000 or more from all revenue sources over a 12-
month period.  The bill eliminates this requirement to submit for JCF review 
Medical Assistance state plan amendments, changes to reimbursement rates, or 
supplemental payments.
Dental reimbursement pilot project reporting requirement
Under current law, DHS must distribute moneys under a dental 
reimbursement pilot project to increase the reimbursement rate for pediatric dental 
care and adult emergency dental services provided under the Medical Assistance 
program in Brown, Marathon, Polk, and Racine Counties and, if certain 
requirements are met, in any other county, as determined by DHS, where Medical 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 100 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Assistance recipients have the greatest need for pediatric dental care and adult 
emergency dental services.  In addition, current law requires DHS to submit a 
biennial report on the pilot project to the chief clerk of each house of the legislature, 
each standing committee of the legislature with jurisdiction over health or public 
benefits, and JCF.  The bill eliminates the reporting requirement.
Community support program
Currently, mental health and psychosocial rehabilitative services provided by 
a community support program are a benefit provided by the Medical Assistance 
program.  Under current law, for these services, a county pays the nonfederal share 
of the Medical Assistance reimbursement and DHS reimburses the service provider 
for the federal share of the Medical Assistance reimbursement. Under the bill, DHS 
must reimburse a county for both the federal and nonfederal share of the allowable 
charges for mental health and psychosocial rehabilitative services provided by a 
community support program.
Hospital assessment
Under current law, certain hospitals must pay an annual assessment that is 
equal to a percentage of the hospital [s gross patient revenues.  Currently, DHS 
must set the percentage so that the total amount of assessments collected in a fiscal 
year is $414,507,300.  The bill increases this amount to $1,341,839,500.  Under 
current law, institutions for mental disease, certain general psychiatric hospitals, 
and critical access hospitals are not required to pay the assessment.  The bill also 
exempts rehabilitation hospitals and long-term acute care hospitals from paying 
the assessment.  Currently, DHS must use a portion of the assessments collected to 
pay for services provided under the Medical Assistance program by the hospitals 
from which the assessments are collected.  Under current law, the payments must 
equal the amount collected divided by 61.68 percent.  The bill increases that 
percentage to 62.39.
Under current law, a critical access hospital must also pay an annual 
assessment that is equal to a percentage of the critical access hospital [s gross 
inpatient revenues.  Currently, DHS must use a portion of the assessments 
collected to pay for services provided by critical access hospitals under the Medical 
Assistance program.  Under current law, the payments must equal the amount 
collected divided by 61.68 percent.  Under the bill, the payments must equal 
$49,392,400, and moneys from a biennial GPR appropriation for Medical Assistance 
program benefits may also be used as needed to fund the nonfederal share of 
payments for the services.
Children [s behavioral health managed care
The bill authorizes DHS to request a waiver from the federal Department of 
Health and Human Services to administer a children [s behavioral health specialty 
managed care program under the Medical Assistance program.  The bill provides 
that DHS may administer the children [s behavioral health specialty managed care 
program if the waiver is granted.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 101 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Children [s long-term support waiver program
The bill requires DHS to ensure that any eligible child who applies for the 
disabled children [s long-term support waiver program receives services under that 
program. The disabled children [s long-term support waiver program provides 
services to children who have developmental, physical, or severe emotional 
disabilities and who are living at home or in another community-based setting.
Pediatric inpatient supplement
The bill establishes in statute reference to supplemental funding totaling 
$2,000,000 to be distributed by DHS to certain acute care hospitals located in 
Wisconsin that have a total of more than 12,000 inpatient days in the hospital [s 
acute care pediatric units and intensive care pediatric units, not including neonatal 
intensive care units.  In addition, under the bill, DHS may distribute additional 
funding of $7,500,000 in each state fiscal year to hospitals that are free-standing 
pediatric teaching hospitals located in Wisconsin that have a Medicaid inpatient 
utilization rate greater than 45 percent.
CHILDREN
Expanding eligibility for subsidized guardianships and kinship care 
payments
Under current law, a guardian appointed by the juvenile court or tribal court 
to provide care to a child adjudged to be in need of protection or services or a 
juvenile adjudged to be in need of protection or services, if the juvenile [s parent or 
prior guardian is unable or needs assistance to control the juvenile, may receive 
monthly subsidized guardianship payments from DCF or a county department of 
human or social services (county department) reimbursed by DCF or an Indian 
tribe reimbursed by DCF.  A guardian may receive such payments only if certain 
conditions have been met, including that 1) the child, if 14 years of age or over, has 
been consulted with regarding the guardianship arrangement; 2) the guardian has 
a strong commitment to caring for the child permanently; 3) the guardian is 
licensed as the child [s foster parent, which licensing includes an inspection of the 
guardian [s home under rules promulgated by DCF; 4) the guardian and all adult 
residents of the guardian [s home have passed a criminal background investigation; 
and 5) prior to being named as guardian of the child, the guardian entered into a 
subsidized guardianship agreement with DCF, the county department, or the 
Indian tribe.
Under the bill, a guardian appointed by the juvenile court or tribal court to a 
juvenile adjudged to be delinquent or a juvenile adjudged to be in need of protection 
or services for any reason may receive monthly subsidized guardianship payments 
from DCF, a county department, or an Indian tribe.
Under current law, a kinship care provider who is providing temporary care to 
a child or juvenile adjudged to be in need of protection or services may receive 
monthly kinship care payments from DCF, a county department, or an Indian tribe.  
Under the bill, a kinship care provider who is providing temporary care to a juvenile 
alleged to be delinquent may receive such payments.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 102 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Under current law, kinship care payments are administered directly by DCF 
in Milwaukee County.  Under the bill, a county department in Milwaukee County 
may administer kinship care payments and be reimbursed by DCF.
The bill also requires that in a dispositional order placing a juvenile who has 
been adjudicated delinquent outside his or her home, in addition to the findings 
required under current law, the court must also find that continued placement in 
the juvenile [s home would be contrary to the welfare of the juvenile.  Under current 
law, such an order must include a finding that the juvenile [s current residence will 
not safeguard the welfare of the juvenile or the community due to the serious nature 
of the act for which the juvenile was adjudicated delinquent.
DCF child support assignment and referrals
The bill removes the assignment to the state of child support orders and 
arrears existing at the time a child enters foster care.  The bill also removes the role 
of DCF and a county department in providing child support referrals and collecting 
child support for families with children in out-of-home care except if DCF or a 
county department determines that such a referral is appropriate under rules to be 
promulgated by DCF.  The bill eliminates from the Juvenile Justice Code 
requirements that the juvenile court order child support, except for modification of 
existing orders, and order the parents of a juvenile under DCF supervision to 
contribute towards the costs of certain sanctions, dispositions, or placements.
The bill also adds language to the Xbest interests of the child Y factor that 
under current law must be used by the family court when modifying a child support 
order.  The bill specifies that, for a child in out-of-home care under the Children [s 
Code or the Juvenile Justice Code, this factor includes the impact on the child of 
family expenditures to improve any conditions in the home that would facilitate the 
reunification of the child with the child [s family, if appropriate, and the importance 
of a placement that is the least restrictive of the rights of the child and the parents 
and the most appropriate for meeting the needs of the child and the family.
Foster care and kinship care rates and payments
The bill eliminates the separate monthly basic maintenance rates that the 
state or a county pays to foster parents certified to provide level one care so that 
age-based monthly basic maintenance rates are paid to all foster parents.  The bill 
changes the rates paid to all kinship care providers, which under current law are 
$375 per month for a child of any age, to be the same as the age-based monthly basic 
maintenance rates paid to foster parents.  The bill also increases these age-based 
monthly basic maintenance rates by 5 percent.  Beginning on January 1, 2026, the 
monthly rates are $463 for a child under five years of age, $507 for a child 5 to 11 
years of age, $575 for a child 12 to 14 years of age, and $601 for a child 15 years of 
age or over.
The bill provides that, in addition to the monthly rates currently paid to a 
foster home or a kinship care provider who is providing care and maintenance for a 
child, DCF or a county department of human services or social services may make 
emergency payments for kinship care to a kinship care provider or for foster care to 
a foster home if any of the following conditions are met:2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 103 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
1.  The governor has declared a state of emergency, or the federal government 
has declared a major disaster, that covers the locality of the home of the kinship 
care provider who is providing foster care in the home (home).
2.  This state has received federal funding to be used for child welfare purposes 
due to an emergency or disaster declared for the locality of the home.
3.  DCF has determined that conditions in this state or in the locality of the 
home have resulted in a temporary increase in the costs borne by foster homes and 
kinship care providers, including a pandemic or other public health threat, a 
natural disaster, or unplanned school closures of five consecutive days or more.
The bill provides that DCF must determine the amount of an emergency 
payment based on available funding and may promulgate rules governing the 
provision of the payments.
The bill changes the statutes and the administrative code to make all foster 
homes and kinship care providers eligible to receive exceptional payments to enable 
siblings or a minor parent and minor children to reside together and to receive an 
initial clothing allowance.  Under current law, these payments are only available to 
foster homes certified to provide higher than level one care.
Benefits eligibility screening
The bill directs DCF or a county department (the department) to periodically 
screen each child under the placement and care of the department in out-of-home 
care, other than children placed with kinship care providers receiving kinship care 
payments, to determine if the child is eligible for federal or state benefits (benefits).  
If the department finds that a child is eligible for benefits, the department must do 
all of the following:
1.  Apply for the benefits for which the child is eligible on behalf of the child.
2.  Ensure that the child, the child [s guardian ad litem, and the child [s parent, 
guardian, or Indian custodian receive proper and timely notice of any application for 
benefits, the results of an application for benefits, and any appeal of a denial of 
benefits that could be or is filed on behalf of the child.
3.  Provide the child with training covering financial literacy and maintaining 
benefit eligibility prior to the child aging out of out-of-home care.
If the department is appointed as representative payee for a child receiving 
benefits under the bill, the department must conserve the child [s benefits in 
protected accounts that avoid asset limitations for federal and state programs, 
consistent with the best interests of the child; provide a periodic accounting to the 
child, the child [s attorney or guardian ad litem, and the child [s parent, guardian, or 
Indian custodian regarding the conservation and use of the child [s benefits while 
the child is in the department [s care; and work with the child and the appropriate 
federal agency to return remaining funds to the child or another fiduciary once the 
child exits the department [s care.
The department may contract with a public or private agency to fulfill the 
requirements of the bill.  The department may not use benefits received on behalf of 
a child to pay for the costs of caring for the child in out-of-home care, but may use 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 104 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
the child [s federal benefits for the child [s unmet needs beyond what the agency is 
obligated to, is required to, or has agreed to provide.
The bill requires DCF to promulgate rules to implement the bill and 
authorizes DCF to promulgate emergency rules for the period before permanent 
rules take effect.
Representation of parents in CHIPS proceedings
Under current law, a parent is generally not entitled to representation by a 
public defender in a proceeding under the Children [s Code in which a child is 
alleged to be in need of protection or services.  However, a pilot program that began 
in 2018 requires the SPD to assign counsel to any nonpetitioning parent in these 
cases in Brown, Outagamie, Racine, Kenosha, and Winnebago Counties.  This five-
county pilot program is set to expire after June 2025.  The bill extends the 
expiration date of the pilot program to December 31, 2026.
Independent living services eligibility expansion
The bill expands a current program under which DCF must distribute 
$231,700 each fiscal year for the purpose of assisting individuals who reach the age 
of 18 while residing in out-of-home care to make the transition from out-of-home 
care to a successful adulthood.  The bill expands this program to also assist an 
individual who resided in out-of-home care, including in the home of like-kin or in 
the home of a person who is not a relative or like-kin, for at least six months after 
his or her 16th birthday; an individual who was placed under a guardianship as a 
child in need of protection or services on or after his or her 16th birthday; and an 
individual who was adopted on or after his or her 16th birthday following time in 
out-of-home care.  The bill also allows the services funded by this program to be 
offered until age 23, and allows the funding to be distributed to Indian tribes and 
private and public agencies and organizations.  The bill also removes the 
requirement that DCF distribute a minimum of $231,700 in each fiscal year for the 
program.
Specialized congregate care payments
The bill grants DCF the authority to expend funds to provide payments for 
specialized services to children with high acuity needs in congregate care facilities.  
XCongregate care facilities Y means group homes, shelter care facilities, and 
residential care centers for children and youth.
Children and family services
Under current law, DCF must distribute $101,551,400 in fiscal year 2023 ]24 
and $101,939,600 in fiscal year 2024 ]25 to counties for children and family 
services.  The bill updates those amounts to $104,969,500 in fiscal year 2025 ]26 
and $110,869,200 in fiscal year 2026 ]27.
Child care partnership grant program
The bill authorizes DCF to establish a grant program to award funding to 
businesses, nonprofits, or governmental entities (businesses) that provide or wish 
to provide child care services for their employees. The bill allows such a grant to be 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 105 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
used to reserve child care placements for local business employees, pay child care 
tuition, and other costs related to child care.  Under the bill, a grant recipient with 
50 or fewer employees must provide at least 10 percent matching funds and a grant 
recipient with more than 50 employees must provide at least 15 percent matching 
funds.  The bill allows DCF to promulgate rules to administer the grant program, 
including to determine eligibility for a grant, and authorizes DCF to promulgate 
these as emergency rules.
Child care access program
The bill requires DCF to contract with Wonderschool, Inc., and Wisconsin 
Early Childhood Association, Inc., to increase access to high-quality child care.  The 
bill requires DCF to enter into a $4,500,000 contract with Wonderschool to 1) 
increase the child care workforce by launching an online software platform that is 
linked to DCF [s website to connect child care providers with child care workers and 
a pool of substitute child care workers and 2) build child care capacity in this state.  
The bill also requires DCF to enter into a $5,500,000 contract with Wisconsin Early 
Childhood Association to provide 1) existing or prospective child care providers with 
licensing and certification assistance, 2) coaching and other support services, and 
3) tax education assistance for child care centers that provide care and supervision 
for between four and eight children.
Grants for out-of-school time programs
The bill directs DCF to make grants to out-of-school time programs, defined as 
structured programs or activities that meet all of the following conditions:
1.  To the extent practicable, the program or activity is led by adult mentors 
using evidence-based or evidence-informed practices and is provided to school-age 
children before school, after school, or during the summer.
2.  The program or activity does not supplant instructional services provided 
by a school or result in academic credit for students.
3.  The program or activity relates to improving social, emotional, academic, or 
career readiness competencies; reducing negative behaviors, including violence and 
crime, tobacco use, alcohol and substance abuse, disengagement from school, school 
suspension, truancy, and health-compromising behaviors; providing a safe out-of-
school time environment; or engaging in career exploration or formal or informal 
work-based learning.
The bill requires DCF to promulgate rules to implement the grant program 
and authorizes DCF to promulgate emergency rules for the period before 
permanent rules take effect.
HEALTH
Complex patient pilot program
The bill requires DHS to select, using a competitive grant selection process, 
partnership groups to be designated as participating sites for a complex patient 
pilot program and then award grants to the partnership groups selected.  The bill 
provides that a partnership group is one or more hospitals in partnership with one 
or more post-acute facilities.  The bill provides that DHS must solicit feedback 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 106 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
regarding the pilot program from representatives of health care system 
organizations, long-term care provider organizations, long-term care operator 
organizations, patient advocate groups, insurers, and any other organization 
determined to be relevant by the secretary of health services.  Under the bill, DHS 
must require each partnership group that applies to be designated as a site for the 
pilot program to address certain issues in its application, including 1) the number of 
complex patient care beds that will be set aside in a post-acute facility or through 
implementation of another innovative model of patient care in a post-acute facility 
to which participating hospitals agree; 2) defined goals and measurable outcomes of 
the partnership both during and after the pilot program; 3) the types of complex 
patients for whom care will be provided; 4) an operating budget for the proposed 
site; and 5) the participant group [s expertise to successfully implement the 
proposal.
The bill requires DHS to develop a methodology to evaluate the pilot program 
and contract with an independent organization to complete the evaluation.  Under 
the bill, DHS may pay the organization [s fee from the funding appropriated for the 
pilot program.  The bill requires DHS to give additional weight to partnership 
groups that would ensure geographic diversity.  Upon completion of the required 
evaluation, the independent organization contracted by DHS to conduct the 
evaluation must provide the evaluation to DHS.
Health care entity oversight and transparency
The bill creates various requirements and procedures related to health care 
entity oversight and transparency.
The bill establishes procedures for review of proposed material change 
transactions involving health care entities.  The bill requires DHS to promulgate 
rules to define, for purposes of the provisions in the bill, what entities are 
considered to be health care entities and what constitutes a material change 
transaction.  The bill requires, among other things, that before consummating any 
material change transaction, a health care entity must submit written notice to 
DHS.  Under the bill, DHS must post information about the proposed transaction 
on its website no less than 30 days before the anticipated implementation of the 
material change transaction or, if the department is notified less than 30 days 
before the anticipated implementation, as soon as is practicable.  The bill includes 
procedures for DHS to review and approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove a 
proposed transaction.  The bill provides for post-transaction oversight, including 
possible enforcement by the attorney general and DHS, as well as monitoring of 
compliance and required reporting.  The bill also prohibits the corporate practice of 
medicine and requires DHS to promulgate rules to define what conduct constitutes 
the corporate practice of medicine within the scope of the prohibition.
The bill adds transparency requirements relating to ownership and control of 
health care entities.  Under the bill, with certain exceptions, each health care entity 
must report certain information relating to ownership and control to DHS annually 
and upon the consummation of a material change transaction involving the entity, 
including the legal name of the entity, its business address, and locations of 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 107 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
operations, as well as a current organizational chart showing the business 
structure of the health care entity and the name and contact information of a 
representative of the entity.  Beginning in 2028, the bill requires DHS to post on its 
publicly available website an annual report based on the health care entity 
reporting from the previous year.  The bill includes enforcement mechanisms, 
including granting DHS authority to audit and inspect the records of any health 
care entity that has failed to submit complete reporting information or if DHS has 
reason to question the accuracy or completeness of the information submitted.  The 
bill requires DHS to conduct annual audits of a random sample of health care 
entities to verify compliance with and accuracy and completeness of required 
reporting.  The bill includes penalties for failure to submit a required report and for 
submitting a report containing false information.  Health care entities consisting of 
independent health care providers or provider organizations without any third-
party ownership or control entities, with 10 or fewer physicians or less than $10 
million in annual revenue, are subject to forfeiture of up to $50,000 for each report 
not provided or containing false information, and all other health care entities are 
subject to a forfeiture of up to $500,000 for each report not provided or containing 
false information.
The bill also includes authority for DHS to promulgate rules to implement the 
provisions of the bill.
Women[s health block grant
Under current law, DHS must allocate women [s health funds, which are funds 
received by the state from the federal government under Title V of the federal Social 
Security Act, to develop and maintain an integrated system of community health 
services and to maximize the coordination of family planning services.  Current law 
excludes from the definition of Xfamily planning Y the performance, promotion, 
encouragement, or counseling in favor of, or referral either directly or through an 
intermediary for, voluntary termination of pregnancy but includes in the definition 
of Xfamily planning Y the provision of nondirective information explaining prenatal 
care and delivery or infant care, foster care, or adoption.  Current law provides that 
DHS must distribute women [s health funds only to public entities.  However, 
current law allows those public entities to provide some or all of the funds received 
to other public entities or private entities but only if the recipients of the funds do 
not provide abortion services, make referrals for abortion services, or have an 
affiliate that provides abortion services or makes referrals for abortion services.  
The bill continues to allow public entities that receive funds from DHS to provide 
some or all of the funds to other public or private entities but eliminates the 
restriction on which public or private entities may receive those funds.  The bill also 
includes in the definition of Xfamily planning Y the provision of nondirective 
information explaining pregnancy termination.
Nursing home bed access
Under current law, DHS licenses nursing home beds and enforces a maximum 
limit on the number of these licensed beds in the state.  The bill reduces that limit 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 108 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
from 51,795 to 25,415.  The bill also directs DHS to allocate 125 nursing home beds 
to applicants that agree to prioritize admissions of patients with complex needs and 
patients who have been unable to find appropriate placement at another facility.
Newborn screening program
In general, under current law, newborns must be tested for certain congenital 
and metabolic disorders as specified in rules promulgated by DHS.  The federal 
Department of Health and Human Services maintains a list of disorders for which 
it recommends testing in newborns, known as the federal Recommended Uniform 
Screening Panel (RUSP).
Under the bill, DHS must evaluate each disorder that is included in the RUSP 
as of January 1, 2025, to determine whether newborns in this state should be tested 
for that disorder.  This requirement does not apply to any disorder in the RUSP if, 
as of January 1, 2025, the disorder is already included in the list of disorders for 
which newborns must be tested in this state.  In addition, the bill requires DHS to 
evaluate any disorder added to the RUSP after January 1, 2025, to determine 
whether newborns in this state should be tested for that newly added disorder.  If 
DHS determines newborns should not be tested for the disorder, DHS must 
annually review medical literature and DHS [s capacity and resources to test for the 
disorder in order to determine whether to reevaluate the inclusion of the disorder in 
newborn testing in this state.  If, in any of these evaluations or reevaluations, DHS 
determines that a disorder in the RUSP should be added to the list of disorders for 
which newborns must be tested in this state, the bill requires DHS to promulgate 
rules to add that disorder.
The requirements for evaluations, reviews, and reevaluations under the bill do 
not apply to a disorder in the RUSP if DHS is in the process of adding, by rule, the 
disorder to the list of disorders for which newborns must be tested in this state.  
However, if the rule-making procedure for that disorder does not result in 
promulgation of a rule, then DHS must consider the disorder under the review and 
reevaluation procedures under the bill.
Electrocardiogram screening pilot project for middle school and high 
school athletes in Milwaukee and Waukesha Counties
The bill directs DHS to develop a pilot program to provide electrocardiogram 
screenings for participants in middle school and high school athletics programs in 
Milwaukee and Waukesha Counties.  DHS is required to award $4,067,200 in 
grants in fiscal year 2026 ]27 to local health departments to implement the 
program.  The bill specifies that participation in the program by participants in 
middle school and high school athletics programs must be optional.
Alzheimer [s Family and Caregiver Support Program
Under current law, DHS is required to allocate funds to agencies to be used for 
the administration and implementation of an Alzheimer [s Family and Caregiver 
Support Program for persons with Alzheimer [s disease and their caregivers.  
Current law provides that DHS may not distribute more than $3,058,900 in each 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 109 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
fiscal year for services to persons with Alzheimer [s disease and their caregivers.  
The bill increases that limit to $3,558,900 in each fiscal year.
Maternal and child health grants
The bill authorizes DHS to distribute up to $800,000 in each fiscal year to 
organizations whose mission is to improve maternal and child health in Wisconsin.
Mobile dental clinic grants
The bill requires DHS to award grants to community health centers to procure 
and operate mobile dental clinics.  A community health center is a health care 
entity that provides primary health care, health education, and social services to 
low-income individuals.
Grants for free and charitable clinics and FQHC look-alikes
Under current law, DHS must annually award $2,250,000 in grants to free 
and charitable clinics.  The bill increases that amount to $2,500,000 annually.  Free 
and charitable clinics are nonprofit health care organizations that provide health 
services to individuals who are uninsured, underinsured, or have limited or no 
access to primary, specialty, or prescription care.
The bill also requires DHS to annually award $200,000 in grants to federally 
qualified health center (FQHC) look-alikes.  Under the bill, a grant to an FQHC 
look-alike may not exceed $100,000.  XFQHCY is a federal designation for health 
care entities that meet certain requirements, including providing primary health 
care services to medically underserved populations, and receive federal grant 
moneys.  XFQHC look-alike Y is a federal designation for health care entities that 
meet all of the requirements of FQHCs but do not receive federal FQHC grant 
moneys.
Health care provider training grants
Under current law, DHS must distribute grants to hospitals, health systems, 
and educational entities that form health care education and training consortia for 
allied health professionals in an amount up to $125,000 per consortium in each 
fiscal year.  The grants may be used for curriculum and faculty development, tuition 
reimbursement, or clinical site or simulation expenses.
Current law also requires DHS to distribute grants to hospitals and clinics 
that provide training opportunities for advanced practice clinicians in an amount 
up to $50,000 per hospital or clinic in each fiscal year and to give preference to 
training programs that include rural hospitals and rural clinics as clinical training 
locations.  The grants must be used to pay for the costs of operating a clinical 
training program for advanced practice clinicians.  Current law requires grant 
recipients under both grant programs to match the grants through their own 
funding sources.
The bill combines those grant programs under a single section of the statutes 
and funds the grants from a single appropriation.  The bill removes the current law 
matching requirement for grant recipients and the grant amount  caps.  The bill 
also requires DHS to distribute grants to health systems that provide training 
opportunities for advanced practice clinicians and to hospitals, health systems, 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 110 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
clinics, and educational entities that form health care education and training 
consortia for behavioral health providers.  In awarding any grant under the bill, 
DHS must give preference to training programs that include rural hospitals and 
rural clinics as clinical training locations.  The bill specifies that acceptable uses of 
grant moneys include reasonable expenses incurred by a trainee, expenses related 
to planning and implementing a training program, and up to $5,000 in equipment 
expenses.
Falls prevention funding
The bill directs DHS to award $450,000 in each of fiscal years 2025 ]26 and 
2026]27 to an organization committed to reducing falls among older adults for the 
purpose of statewide falls prevention awareness and initiatives.
Assistive technology services
Under current law, DHS awards grants for certain community programs.  The 
bill allows DHS to distribute up to $250,000 in each fiscal year for grants to provide 
assistive technology services.
Community dental health coordinators
The bill requires DHS to award grants to support community dental health 
coordinators in rural regions of the state.  Community dental health coordinators 
are individuals who help facilitate oral health care for families and individuals, 
particularly in underserved communities.
Grant funding for diaper banks
Under current law, DHS is required to award grants for certain community 
programs.  The bill allows DHS to distribute up to $500,000 in each fiscal year as 
grants to diaper banks to provide diapers to families in need.
Health care provider innovation grants
The bill requires DHS to award $7,500,000 in fiscal year 2025 ]26 as grants to 
health care providers and long-term care providers to implement best practices and 
innovative solutions to increase worker recruitment and retention.
Medical debt collections reporting
The bill prohibits a health care provider, or a billing administrator or debt 
collector acting on behalf of a health care provider, from reporting to a consumer 
reporting agency that a debt arising from services provided by the health care 
provider is in collections status unless 1) the health care provider provided a 
written statement to the patient describing the unpaid amount and due date and 
that included the name and address of the health care provider that provided the 
services, 2) the written statement includes a statement indicating that if payment 
is not received, the debt may be reported to a credit reporting agency, 3) six months 
have passed since the due date listed on that statement, and 4) the patient does not 
dispute the charges.
Statewide poison control program
Under current law, DHS must implement a statewide poison control system 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 111 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
that provides statewide poison control services 24 hours a day and 365 days a year 
and provides poison information and education to health care professionals and the 
public.  Current law provides that DHS must distribute funding up to $425,000 in 
each fiscal year to supplement the operation of the system and to provide for the 
statewide collection and reporting of poison control data. The bill increases this 
amount to $482,500.
Conversion of lead poisoning and lead services grant appropriation from 
annual to continuing.
The bill converts an appropriation to DHS for the purpose of providing lead 
poisoning or lead exposure prevention grants from an annual appropriation to a 
continuing appropriation.  Annual appropriations are appropriations expendable 
only for the fiscal year for which they are made.  Continuing appropriations are 
appropriations that are expendable until fully depleted or repealed by the 
legislature.
Mike Johnson grants
The bill increases from $4,000,000 to $4,500,000 the annual maximum 
amount of Mike Johnson life care and early intervention services grants that DHS 
awards to organizations for HIV-related services, including needs assessments, 
assistance in procuring services, counseling and therapy, home care services and 
supplies, advocacy, case management services, and early intervention services.
Grants for pediatric health psychology residency and fellowship training 
programs
Under current law, DHS awards grants for certain community programs.  The 
bill allows DHS to distribute up to $600,000 in each fiscal year as grants to support 
pediatric health psychology residency and fellowship training programs.
Trauma resilience grant
The bill allows DHS, through the grants program it is required to administer, 
to distribute up to $250,000 in fiscal year 2025 ]26 and up to $250,000 in fiscal year 
2026]27 as a grant to an organization in the city of Milwaukee to support the needs 
of individuals impacted by trauma and to develop the capacity of organizations to 
treat and prevent trauma.
BEHAVIORAL  HEALTH  AND DEVELOPMENTAL  DISABILITIES
Psychiatric residential treatment facilities
The bill establishes a DHS certification process for psychiatric residential 
treatment facilities.  The bill defines a psychiatric residential treatment facility as 
a nonhospital facility that provides inpatient comprehensive mental health 
treatment services to individuals under the age of 21 who, due to mental illness, 
substance use, or severe emotional disturbance, need treatment that can most 
effectively be provided in a residential treatment facility.  Psychiatric residential 
treatment facilities must be certified by DHS to operate.
The bill also provides that services through a psychiatric residential 
treatment facility are reimbursable under the Medical Assistance program.  The 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 112 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
bill requires DHS to submit to the federal government any request for federal 
approval necessary to provide the reimbursement for services by a psychiatric 
residential treatment facility under the Medical Assistance program.
Under current law, DHS must award grants for certain community programs.  
The bill allows DHS to distribute up to $1,790,000 each fiscal year to support 
psychiatric residential treatment facilities.
988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline grants
The bill requires DHS to award grants to organizations that provide crisis 
intervention services and crisis care coordination to individuals who contact the 
national 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline from anywhere within the state.  Currently, 
DHS partners with Wisconsin Lifeline to provide statewide 988 crisis hotline 
services.
Crisis stabilization facilities grants
The bill requires DHS to award grants for services at facilities providing crisis 
stabilization services.  Under the bill, Xcrisis stabilization services Y are optional 
emergency mental health services that provide short-term, intensive, community-
based services to avoid the need for inpatient hospitalization.
Crisis program enhancement grants
The bill expands the crisis program enhancement grant program to include 
grants to counties, regions comprising multiple counties, or municipalities to 
establish and enhance law enforcement and behavioral health services emergency 
response collaboration programs.  Under current law, the crisis program 
enhancement grant program requires DHS to award grants to counties or regions of 
multiple counties to establish or enhance crisis programs to serve individuals 
having crises in rural areas.  The bill instructs DHS to annually award a total 
amount of $2,000,000 in each fiscal biennium to establish and enhance law 
enforcement and behavioral health services emergency response collaboration 
programs.  The bill requires any entity that receives a grant to establish and 
enhance law enforcement and behavioral health services emergency response 
collaboration programs to contribute at least 25 percent of the grant amount 
awarded for the purpose that the grant money is received.
Crisis urgent care and observation facilities
The bill amends a biennial appropriation to DHS for grants to support crisis 
urgent care and observation facilities to make it a continuing appropriation.  
Biennial appropriations are appropriations that are expendable for the fiscal 
biennium for which they are made.  Continuing appropriations are appropriations 
that are expendable until fully depleted or repealed by a subsequent action of the 
legislature.
Extended intensive treatment surcharge
Under current law, an individual may be placed at or transferred to a state 
center for the developmentally disabled if DHS and the individual [s county of 
residence agree upon a maximum discharge date for the individual, among other 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 113 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
requirements.  Currently, DHS may impose a surcharge on a county for certain 
services provided at a center for the developmentally disabled after an individual [s 
maximum discharge date.  Under current law, all moneys received as payment for 
the surcharge must be provided to counties for onetime costs associated with 
relocating individuals from a center for the developmentally disabled.  Under the 
bill, the surcharge must be used instead for the provision of alternative services by 
mental health institutes and centers for the developmentally disabled, such as 
residential, dental, and mental health services.
Funding for Winnebago Mental Health Institute
The bill transfers moneys from the general fund to a program revenue 
appropriation for DHS to support the operations of Winnebago Mental Health 
Institute.
Mental health consultation program
The bill combines the child psychiatry consultation program with additional 
services into a new mental health consultation program.  The bill also splits off 
funding for the existing addiction medicine consultation program into a separate 
appropriation.
Currently, the child psychiatry consultation program assists participating 
clinicians in providing care to children with mental health care needs and provides 
referral support and additional services.  Current law requires DHS to convene 
interested persons, including the Medical College of Wisconsin, to develop a plan 
and standards for a comprehensive mental health consultation program 
incorporating various psychiatry specialties, including addiction medicine; a 
perinatal psychiatry consultation program; and the child psychiatry consultation 
program.  This requirement is eliminated in the bill along with the separate child 
psychiatry consultation program.  Under current law, the addiction medicine 
consultation program assists participating clinicians in providing care to patients 
with substance use addiction and provides referral support and additional services.  
The bill retains the program, but establishes a new appropriation to fund the 
program.
The bill requires an organization to administer a mental health consultation 
program (MHCP) that incorporates a comprehensive set of mental health 
consultation services and may include perinatal, child, adult, geriatric, pain, 
veteran, and general mental health consultation services.  Under the bill, the 
organization that currently administers the child psychiatry consultation program 
must administer the MHCP during the 2025 ]26 fiscal year, but DHS may contract 
with another organization in subsequent fiscal years.  The contracting organization 
may contract with any other entity to perform any operations and satisfy any 
requirements of the MHCP.  The contracting organization must do all of the 
following: ensure that mental health providers providing services through the 
MHCP have the appropriate credentials as described in the bill, maintain 
infrastructure to provide services statewide on every weekday, provide consultation 
services as promptly as practicable, report to DHS any information DHS requires, 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 114 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
conduct surveys of participating clinicians as described in the bill, and provide 
certain specified services.  Those specified services are the following: support for 
clinicians participating in the MHCP to assist in the management of mental health 
concerns; triage-level assessments to determine the most appropriate response; 
diagnostics and therapeutic feedback when medically appropriate; and recruitment 
of other practices to a provider [s services.  The MHCP must be able to provide 
consultation services by telephone and email but may also provide services by other 
means.  In addition to the services required in the bill, which are eligible for 
funding by DHS, the contracting organization may provide any of the services 
specified in the bill that are eligible for funding by DHS.
HOUSING
WHEDA housing programs modifications
The bill makes modifications to three housing programs administered by 
WHEDA:  the residential housing infrastructure revolving loan program, also 
known as the Infrastructure Access program; the main street housing 
rehabilitation revolving loan program, also known as the Restore Main Street 
program; and the commercial-to-housing conversion revolving loan program, also 
known as the Vacancy-to-Vitality program.
For the Infrastructure Access program, the bill does all of the following:
1.  Allows a loan to a developer to provide for up to 33 percent of total project 
costs and a loan to a governmental unit to provide for up to 25 percent of total 
project costs.  Under current law, a loan to developers may provide for up to 20 
percent of total project costs and a loan to a governmental unit may provide for up to 
10 percent of total project costs.
2.  Permits up to 25 percent of the amount of a loan to a developer to be used 
for improvements to private infrastructure.  Under current law, a loan may be used 
for improvements to only infrastructure that is or will be owned, maintained, or 
provided for or to a governmental unit or infrastructure in a rural area that is 
transferred to public use.
3.  Allows tribal housing authorities to receive loans as developers of eligible 
projects.
For the Restore Main Street program, the bill does all of the following:
1.  Allows a loan to provide for up to $50,000 per dwelling unit or 33 percent of 
total project costs, whichever is less.  Under current law, a loan may provide for up 
to $20,000 per dwelling unit or 25 percent of total project costs, whichever is less.
2.  Allows loans to be awarded to projects under the jurisdiction of a federally 
recognized American Indian tribe or band.
For the Vacancy-to-Vitality program, the bill does all of the following:
1.  Allows a loan to provide for up to 33 percent of total project costs.  Under 
current law, a loan may provide up to $1,000,000 per project or 20 percent of total 
project costs, whichever is less.
2.  Permits housing developments with fewer than six dwelling units to be 
eligible for a loan.  Under current law, an eligible housing development must have 
fewer than 16 dwelling units.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 115 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
3.  Allows loans to be awarded to projects under the jurisdiction of a federally 
recognized American Indian tribe or band.
In addition, the bill does the following for each of the three programs:
1.  Removes the requirements that a governmental unit have updated the 
housing element of its comprehensive plan within five years in order to be eligible 
for a loan and permits projects to benefit from a tax incremental district and to use 
historic tax credits.
2.  For the purpose of establishing that a governmental unit has reduced the 
costs of housing as part of applying for a loan, allows the governmental unit to 
submit to WHEDA measures taken by the governmental unit on or after January 1, 
2015.  Under current law, a governmental unit or political subdivision must show 
cost-reduction measures taken on or after January 1, 2023.
3.  Allows a loan to be awarded for projects on tribal reservation or trust lands 
not subject to property taxes in this state.
Discrimination in housing based on receipt of rental or housing assistance
Current open housing law prohibits discrimination in housing based on sex; 
race; color; sexual orientation; disability; religion; national origin; marital status; 
family status; status as a victim of domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking; 
lawful source of income; age; or ancestry.  The bill prohibits discrimination in 
housing based on receipt of rental or housing assistance in the form of a 
contribution from a third party.
Capital reserve fund bonding limit
Under current law, WHEDA issues notes and bonds for most WHEDA 
programs, including housing programs for individuals and families of low or 
moderate income.  Current law prohibits WHEDA from issuing notes and bonds 
that are secured by a capital reserve fund if the total aggregate outstanding 
principal amount would exceed $1,000,000,000.  The bill increases this limit to 
$1,300,000,000.
Low-income housing tax credit
Under current law, WHEDA may certify a person to claim, for a period of up to 
six years, a state tax credit if the person has an ownership interest in a low-income 
housing project in Wisconsin and qualifies for the federal low-income housing tax 
credit program.  The bill increases the amount of credits that WHEDA may 
annually certify from $42,000,000 to $100,000,000.  The bill also requires that the 
project be allocated the federal credit and financed with tax-exempt bonds that are 
not subject to the federal credit [s volume capas opposed to any tax-exempt bonds, 
as required under current lawand allows WHEDA to waive these requirements to 
the extent that WHEDA anticipates that sufficient tax-exempt private activity bond 
volume cap under federal law will not be available to finance low-income housing 
projects in any year.
Affordable housing and workforce development grants
The bill requires DOA to establish a competitive grant program to award 
grants to cities, villages, towns, counties, school districts, and businesses, whether 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 116 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
operated for profit or not for profit, to fund the start-up of programs focused on 
developing the skilled workforce by building or rehabilitating affordable housing in 
their communities.
Grants to incentivize eliminating zoning barriers to affordable housing
The bill requires DOA to establish a competitive grant program to award 
grants to cities, villages, towns, counties, and federally recognized American Indian 
tribes and bands in the state that adopt one or more of the policy initiatives 
enumerated in the bill to eliminate zoning barriers for the creation or expansion of 
affordable housing.
Homeless case management services grants
Under current law, DOA may award up to 10 grants of up to $50,000 each year 
to shelter facilities for case management services provided to homeless families.  
The bill eliminates the limit on the number of grants that may be awarded and 
raises the grant limit to $75,000.
Geographic distribution of housing grants
Under current law, DOA may award grants to provide homeless individuals 
with housing and other supportive services to facilitate their movement to 
independent living.  DOA must ensure that the funds for the grants are reasonably 
balanced among geographic areas of the state that correspond to the geographic 
areas served by each continuum of care organization designated by the federal 
Department of Housing and Urban Development.  Under the bill, the geographic 
areas of the state among which DOA must balance funds for the grants need not 
correspond to the geographic areas served by each continuum of care organization.
Grants to Milwaukee County Housing First
The bill directs DOA to award two grants of $100,000 in fiscal years 2025 ]26 
and 2026 ]27 to the Milwaukee County Department of Health and Human Services 
to support Milwaukee County [s Housing First initiative.
Whole-home upgrade grants
The bill establishes a pilot program under which DOA must award one or more 
grants to Walnut Way Conservation Corp. for the purpose of funding home 
improvements in low-income households in a first class city (presently only 
Milwaukee) that have one or more of the following goals:  1) reducing carbon 
emissions; 2) reducing energy burdens; 3) creating cost savings; or 4) creating 
healthier living environments.  The bill authorizes DOA to establish eligibility 
requirements and other program guidelines for the grant program and allows a 
grant recipient to use grant moneys for administrative costs.
Housing quality standards grants
The bill requires DOA to award grants to owners of rental housing units in 
Wisconsin for purposes of satisfying applicable housing quality standards.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 117 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
INSURANCE
Prescription Drug Affordability Review Board
The bill creates the Prescription Drug Affordability Review Board, whose 
purpose is to protect Wisconsin residents and other stakeholders from the high 
costs of prescription drugs.  The board consists of the commissioner of insurance 
and the following members, all of whom are appointed by the governor for four-year 
terms:
1.  Two members who represent the pharmaceutical drug industry, at least 
one of whom is a licensed pharmacist.
2.  Two members who represent the health insurance industry.
3.  Two members who represent the health care industry, at least one of whom 
is a licensed practitioner.
4.  Two members who represent the interests of the public.
The bill requires the board to meet in open session at least four times per year 
to review prescription drug pricing information.  The board must provide at least 
two weeks [ public notice of its meetings, make the meeting [s materials publicly 
available at least one week prior to meeting, and provide the opportunity for public 
comment.  The bill imposes conflict of interest requirements for the board relating 
to recusal and public disclosure of certain conflicts.  The bill directs the board to 
access and assess drug pricing information, to the extent practicable, by accessing 
and assessing information from other states, by assessing spending for the drug in 
Wisconsin, and by accessing other available pricing information.
Under the bill, the board must conduct drug cost affordability reviews.  The 
first step in the reviews is for the board to identify prescription drugs whose launch 
wholesale acquisition cost exceeds specified thresholds, prescription drugs whose 
increase in wholesale acquisition cost exceeds specified thresholds, and other 
prescription drugs that may create affordability challenges for the health care 
system in Wisconsin.  For each identified prescription drug, the board must 
determine whether to conduct an affordability review by seeking stakeholder input 
and considering the average patient cost share for the drug.  During an affordability 
review, the board must determine whether use of the prescription drug that is fully 
consistent with the labeling approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration 
or standard medical practice has led or will lead to an affordability challenge for the 
health care system in Wisconsin.  In making this determination, the bill requires 
the board to consider a variety of factors, which include the following:
1.  The drug [s wholesale acquisition cost.
2.  The average monetary price concession, discount, or rebate the 
manufacturer provides, or is expected to provide, for the drug to health plans.
3.  The total amount of price concessions, discounts, and rebates the 
manufacturer provides to each pharmacy benefit manager for the drug.
4.  The price at which therapeutic alternatives have been sold and the average 
monetary concession, discount, or rebate the manufacturer provides, or is expected 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 118 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
to provide, to health plan payors and pharmacy benefit managers for therapeutic 
alternatives.
5.  The costs to health plans based on patient access consistent with federal 
labeled indications and recognized standard medical practice.
6.  The impact on patient access resulting from the drug [s cost relative to 
insurance benefit design.
7.  The current or expected dollar value of drug-specific patient access 
programs that are supported by the manufacturer.
8.  The relative financial impacts to health, medical, or social services costs 
that can be quantified and compared to baseline effects of existing therapeutic 
alternatives.
9.  The average patient copay or other cost sharing for the drug.
If the board determines that a prescription drug will lead to an affordability 
challenge, the bill directs the board to establish an upper payment limit for that 
drug that applies to all purchases and payor reimbursements of the drug dispensed 
or administered to individuals in Wisconsin.  In establishing the upper payment 
limit, the board must consider the cost of administering the drug, the cost of 
delivering it to consumers, and other relevant administrative costs.  For certain 
drugs, the board must solicit information from the manufacturer regarding the 
price increase and, if the board determines that the price increase is not a result of 
the need for increased manufacturing capacity or other effort to improve patient 
access during a public health emergency, the board must establish an upper 
payment limit equal to the drug [s cost prior to the price increase.
Office of the Public Intervenor
The bill creates the Office of the Public Intervenor, attached to OCI.  Under 
the bill, the Office of the Public Intervenor assists individuals with claims, policies, 
appeals, and other legal actions related to pursuing insurance coverage for medical 
procedures, prescription medications, and other health care services.  The bill 
authorizes the office to levy an assessment on insurance providers based upon their 
premium volume for health insurance policies written in the state.
Prescription drug importation program
The bill requires the commissioner of insurance, in consultation with persons 
interested in the sale and pricing of prescription drugs and federal officials and 
agencies, to design and implement a prescription drug importation program for the 
benefit of and that generates savings for Wisconsin residents.  The bill establishes 
requirements for the program, including all of the following:  1) the commissioner 
must designate a state agency to become a licensed wholesale distributor or 
contract with a licensed wholesale distributor and to seek federal certification and 
approval to import prescription drugs; 2) the program must comply with certain 
federal regulations and import from Canadian suppliers only prescription drugs 
that are not brand-name drugs, have fewer than four competitor drugs in this 
country, and for which importation creates substantial savings; 3) the 
commissioner must ensure that prescription drugs imported under the program are 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 119 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
not distributed, dispensed, or sold outside of Wisconsin; and 4) the program must 
have an audit procedure to ensure the program complies with certain requirements 
specified in the bill.  Before submitting the proposed program to the federal 
government for certification, the commissioner must submit the proposed program 
to JCF for its approval.
State prescription drug purchasing entity
The bill requires OCI to conduct a study on the viability of creating or 
implementing a state prescription drug purchasing entity.
Exemption from prior authorization requirements
The bill allows the commissioner of insurance to establish, by rule, that any 
health insurance policy or plan that uses a prior authorization process must exempt 
health care providers from obtaining prior authorizations for a health care item or 
service for a period of time established by the commissioner if, in the most recent 
evaluation period established by the commissioner, the health insurance policy or 
plan has approved or would have approved not less than a certain proportion of 
prior authorization requests, as established by the commissioner, submitted by the 
health care provider for the health care item or service.  The commissioner may 
specify the health care items or services that may be subject to this exemption.  
Further, the commissioner may specify how health care providers may obtain an 
exemption from obtaining prior authorizations under the bill, including by 
providing a process for automatic evaluation.
Prior authorization transparency
The bill imposes several regulations on the use of prior authorization 
requirements used by health care plans.  Under the bill, Xprior authorization Y is 
defined to mean the process by which a health care plan or a contracted utilization 
review organization determines the medical necessity and medical appropriateness 
of otherwise covered health care services.
The bill requires health care plans to maintain a list of services for which prior 
authorization is required and publish the list on its website to be accessible by 
members of the general public without requiring the creation of an account or the 
entry of any credentials or personal information.  Further, the bill requires health 
care plans to make the current prior authorization requirements and restrictions 
that it uses accessible and conspicuously posted on its website or on the website of a 
contracted utilization review organization for enrollees and providers.
The bill provides that any clinical review criteria on which a prior 
authorization requirement or restriction is based must satisfy certain criteria, 
including that the criteria are based on nationally recognized, generally accepted 
standards except where provided by law, that the criteria are developed in 
accordance with the current standards of a national medical accreditation entity, 
and that the criteria ensure quality of care and access to needed health care 
services.
The bill prohibits a health care plan from denying a claim for failure to obtain 
prior authorization if the prior authorization requirement was not in effect on the 
date that the service was provided.  Further, the bill prohibits health care plans and 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 120 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
utilization review organizations contracted with health care plans from deeming 
supplies or services as incidental and from denying a claim for supplies or services 
if a provided health care service associated with the supplies or services receives 
prior authorization or if a provided health care service associated with the supplies 
or services does not require prior authorization.
Finally, the bill provides that if a health care plan intends to impose a new 
prior authorization requirement or restriction or intends to amend a prior 
authorization requirement or restriction, the health care plan must provide all 
providers contracted with the health care plan with advanced written notice of the 
new or amended requirement or restriction no less than 60 days before the new or 
amended requirement or restriction is implemented.  No health care plan may 
implement a new or amended prior authorization requirement or restriction unless 
the health care plan or a contracted utilization review organization has updated the 
post on its website to reflect the new or amended prior authorization requirement 
or restriction.
Inpatient mental health prior authorization
The bill prohibits health insurance policies and self-insured governmental 
health plans that cover inpatient mental health services from requiring prior 
authorization for the provision or coverage of those services.  Health insurance 
policies are referred to as disability insurance policies in the bill, and a self-insured 
governmental health plan is a self-funded health plan of the state or a county, city, 
village, town, or school district.
Coverage of individuals with preexisting conditions and other insurance 
market regulations
The bill requires certain health plans to guarantee access to coverage; 
prohibits plans from imposing preexisting condition exclusions; prohibits plans 
from setting premiums or cost-sharing amounts based on health status-related 
factors; prohibits plans from setting lifetime or annual limits on benefits; requires 
plans to cover certain essential health benefits; requires coverage of certain 
preventive services by plans without a cost-sharing contribution by an enrollee; 
sets a maximum annual amount of cost sharing for enrollees; and designates risk 
pool, medical loss ratio, and actuarial value requirements.
The bill requires every individual health insurance policy, referred to in the 
bill as health benefit plans, to accept every individual who, and every group health 
insurance policy to accept every employer that, applies for coverage, regardless of 
the sexual orientation, the gender identity, or any preexisting condition of any 
individual or employee who will be covered by the plan.  The bill allows health 
benefit plans to restrict enrollment in coverage to open or special enrollment 
periods and requires the commissioner of insurance to establish a statewide open 
enrollment period that is no shorter than 30 days for every individual health benefit 
plan.  The bill prohibits a group health insurance policy, including a self-insured 
governmental health plan, from imposing a preexisting condition exclusion.  The 
bill also prohibits an individual health insurance policy from reducing or denying a 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 121 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
claim or loss incurred or disability commencing under the policy on the ground that 
a disease or physical condition existed prior to the effective date of coverage.
A health benefit plan offered on the individual or small employer market or a 
self-insured governmental health plan may not vary premium rates for a specific 
plan except on the basis of 1) whether the plan covers an individual or a family; 2) 
the area in the state; 3) age; and 4) tobacco use, as specified in the bill.  An 
individual health benefit plan or self-insured health plan is prohibited under the 
bill from establishing rules for the eligibility of any individual to enroll based on 
health status-related factors, which are specified in the bill.  A self-insured health 
plan or an insurer offering an individual health benefit plan is also prohibited from 
requiring an enrollee to pay a greater premium, contribution, deductible, 
copayment, or coinsurance amount than is required of an otherwise similarly 
situated enrollee based on a health status-related factor. Current state law 
prohibits group health benefit plans from establishing rules of eligibility or 
requiring greater premium or contribution amounts based on a factor related to 
health status.  The bill adds to these current law requirements for group health 
benefit plans that the plan may not require a greater deductible, copayment, or 
coinsurance amount based on a health status-related factor.
Under the bill, an individual or group health benefit plan or a self-insured 
governmental health plan may not establish lifetime or annual limits on the dollar 
value of benefits for an enrollee or a dependent of an enrollee under the plan.  The 
bill specifies a maximum amount of cost sharing that a plan may impose as the 
amount calculated under the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
(ACA).
The bill requires individual and small employer plans to have either a single 
statewide risk pool for the individual market and a single pool for the small 
employer market or a single statewide risk pool for a combination of the individual 
and small employer markets.  The bill requires individual and small employer plans 
to have a medical loss ratio of at least 80 percent and larger group plans to have a 
medical loss ratio of at least 85 percent.  The medical loss ratio is the proportion of 
premium revenues that the plan spends on clinical services and quality 
improvement.  The bill also requires individual and small employer plans to provide 
a level of coverage that is designed to provide benefits that are actuarially 
equivalent to at least 60 percent of the full actuarial value of the benefits provided 
under the plan.  An actuarial value of 60 percent corresponds to a bronze tier plan 
under the ACA.
The bill requires certain health insurance policies and governmental self-
insured health plans to cover essential health benefits that will be specified by the 
commissioner of insurance by rule.  The bill specifies a list of requirements that the 
commissioner must follow when establishing the essential health benefits including 
certain limitations on cost sharing and the following general categories of benefits, 
items, or services in which the commissioner must require coverage: ambulatory 
patient services, emergency services, hospitalization, maternity and newborn care, 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 122 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
mental health and substance use disorder services, prescription drugs, 
rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices, laboratory services, preventive 
and wellness services and chronic disease management, and pediatric services.  If 
an essential health benefit specified by the commissioner is also subject to its own 
mandated coverage requirement, the bill requires the health insurance policy or 
self-insured health plan to provide coverage under whichever requirement provides 
the insured or plan participant with more comprehensive coverage.
The bill requires health insurance policies and governmental self-insured 
health plans to cover certain preventive services and to provide coverage of those 
preventive services without subjecting that coverage to deductibles, copayments, or 
coinsurance.  The preventive services for which coverage is required are specified in 
the bill.  The bill also specifies certain instances when cost-sharing amounts may be 
charged for an office visit associated with a preventive service.
Preventing surprise bills for emergency medical services and other items 
and services
The bill requires defined network plans, such as health maintenance 
organizations, and certain preferred provider plans and self-insured governmental 
plans that cover benefits or services provided in either an emergency department of 
a hospital or an independent freestanding emergency department to cover 
emergency medical services without requiring a prior authorization determination 
and without regard to whether the health care provider providing the emergency 
medical services is a participating provider or facility.  If the emergency medical 
services for which coverage is required are provided by a nonparticipating provider, 
the plan must 1) not impose a prior authorization requirement or other limitation 
that is more restrictive than if the service was provided by a participating provider; 
2) not impose cost sharing on an enrollee that is greater than the cost sharing 
required if the service was provided by a participating provider; 3) calculate the 
cost-sharing amount to be equal to the recognized amount specified under federal 
law; 4) provide, within 30 days of the provider [s or facility [s bill, an initial payment 
or denial notice to the provider or facility and then pay a total amount to the 
provider or facility that is equal to the amount by which an out-of-network rate 
exceeds the amount it received in cost sharing from the enrollee; and 5) count any 
cost-sharing payment made by the enrollee for the emergency medical services 
toward any in-network deductible or out-of-pocket maximum as if the cost-sharing 
payment was made for services provided by a participating provider or facility.
For coverage of an item or service that is provided by a nonparticipating 
provider in a participating facility, a plan must 1) not impose a cost-sharing 
requirement for the item or service that is greater than the cost-sharing 
requirement that would have been imposed if the item or service was provided by a 
participating provider; 2) calculate the cost-sharing amount to be equal to the 
recognized amount specified under federal law; 3) provide, within 30 days of the 
provider [s bill, an initial payment or denial notice to the provider and then pay a 
total amount to the provider that is equal to the amount by which the out-of-2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 123 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
network rate exceeds the amount it received in cost sharing from the enrollee; and 
4) count any cost-sharing payment made by the enrollee for the items or services 
toward any in-network deductible or out-of-pocket maximum as if the cost-sharing 
payment was made for items or services provided by a participating provider.  A 
nonparticipating provider providing an item or service in a participating facility 
may not bill or hold liable an enrollee for more than the cost-sharing amount unless 
the provider provides notice and obtains consent as described in the bill.  However, 
if the nonparticipating provider is providing an ancillary item or service that is 
specified in the bill, and the commissioner of insurance has not specifically allowed 
providers to bill or hold an enrollee liable for that item or service by rule, the 
nonparticipating provider providing the ancillary item or service in a participating 
facility may not bill or hold liable an enrollee for more than the cost-sharing 
amount.
Under the bill, a provider or facility that is entitled to a payment for an 
emergency medical service or other item or service may initiate open negotiations 
with the defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured 
governmental health plan to determine the amount of payment.  If the open 
negotiation period terminates without determination of the payment amount, the 
provider, facility, or plan may initiate the independent dispute resolution process as 
specified by the commissioner of insurance.  If an enrollee of a plan is a continuing 
care patient, as defined in the bill, and is obtaining services from a participating 
provider or facility, and the contract is terminated because of a change in the terms 
of the participation of the provider or facility in the plan or the contract is 
terminated, resulting in a loss of benefits under the plan, the plan must notify the 
enrollee of the enrollee [s right to elect to continue transitional care, provide the 
enrollee an opportunity to notify the plan of the need for transitional care, and 
allow the enrollee to continue to have the benefits provided under the plan under 
the same terms and conditions as would have applied without the termination until 
either 90 days after the termination notice date or the date on which the enrollee is 
no longer a continuing care patient, whichever is earlier.
Health insurance claims
The bill imposes upon insurers certain requirements for health insurance 
claims processing and denials, including a requirement to process claims within a 
reasonable time frame that prevents an undue delay in care, to provide a detailed 
explanation of a claim denial, and to disclose whether the insurer uses artificial 
intelligence or algorithmic decision-making in processing claims.  The bill also 
prohibits certain actions by an insurer with respect to health insurance claims, 
including using vague or misleading terms to deny a claim, stalling review of a 
claim to avoid timely payment, allowing non-physician personnel to determine 
whether care is medically necessary, mandating prior approval for routine or urgent 
procedures in a manner that causes harmful delays, or requiring an insured to fail 
a cheaper treatment before approving coverage for necessary care.  The bill directs 
insurers to annually publish a report about their claim denials for health insurance 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 124 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
policies and their use of artificial intelligence or algorithmic decision-making in 
processing claims for health insurance policies.  The bill also directs the 
commissioner of insurance to maintain a public database of insurers [ health 
insurance claim denial rates and the outcomes of independent reviews of adverse 
actions under health insurance policies.
Under current law, insureds may request an independent review of adverse 
actions under a health insurance policy under certain circumstances.  The bill 
provides that an insured also has the right to request from the Office of the Public 
Intervenor created under the bill a review of any health insurance claim denial.
In addition, the bill authorizes the commissioner of insurance to audit 
insurers that deny health insurance claims with such frequency as to indicate a 
general business practice. Under the bill, the commissioner may collect any relevant 
information from an insurer necessary to conduct an audit; contract with a third 
party to conduct an audit; order an insurer to comply with a corrective action plan 
based on the findings of an audit; and impose forfeitures or sanctions on an insurer 
that fails to comply with a corrective action plan.  The bill also requires insurers to 
provide a written response to any adverse findings of an audit.
Application of manufacturer discounts
Health insurance policies and plans often apply deductibles and out-of-pocket 
maximum amounts to the benefits covered by the policy or plan.  A deductible is an 
amount that an enrollee in a policy or plan must pay out of pocket before attaining 
the full benefits of the policy or plan.  An out-of-pocket maximum amount is a limit 
specified by a policy or plan on the amount that an enrollee pays, and once that 
limit is reached, the policy or plan covers the benefit entirely.  The bill requires 
health insurance policies that offer prescription drug benefits and self-insured 
health plans to apply the amount of any discounts that a manufacturer of a brand-
name drug provides to reduce the amount of cost sharing that is charged to an 
enrollee for those brand-name drugs to the enrollee [s deductible and out-of-pocket 
maximum amount.  That requirement applies for brand-name drugs that have no 
generic equivalent and for brand-name drugs that have a generic equivalent but 
that the enrollee has prior authorization or physician approval to obtain.
Fiduciary duty of pharmacy benefit managers
The bill imposes fiduciary and disclosure requirements on pharmacy benefit 
managers.  Pharmacy benefit managers contract with health plans that provide 
prescription drug benefits to administer those benefits for the plans.  They also 
have contracts with pharmacies and pay the pharmacies for providing the drugs to 
the plan beneficiaries.
The bill provides that a pharmacy benefit manager owes a fiduciary duty to a 
plan sponsor.  The bill also requires that a pharmacy benefit manager annually 
disclose all of the following information to the plan sponsor:
1.  The indirect profit received by the pharmacy benefit manager from owning 
a pharmacy or service provider.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 125 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
2.  Any payments made to a consultant or broker who works on behalf of the 
plan sponsor.
3.  From the amounts received from drug manufacturers, the amounts 
retained by the pharmacy benefit manager that are related to the plan sponsor [s 
claims or bona fide service fees.
4.  The amounts received from network pharmacies and the amount retained 
by the pharmacy benefit manager.
Licensure of pharmacy benefit management brokers and consultants
The bill requires an individual who is acting as a pharmacy benefit 
management broker or consultant or who is acting to procure the services of a 
pharmacy benefit manager on behalf of a client to be licensed by OCI.  The bill 
allows OCI to promulgate rules to establish criteria, procedures, and fees for 
licensure.
Licensure of pharmaceutical representatives
The bill requires a pharmaceutical representative to be licensed by OCI and to 
display the pharmaceutical representative [s license during each visit with a health 
care professional.  The bill defines Xpharmaceutical representative Y to mean an 
individual who markets or promotes pharmaceuticals to health care professionals 
on behalf of a pharmaceutical manufacturer for compensation.  The term of a 
license issued under the bill is one year, and the license is renewable.  Under the 
bill, the license fee is set by the commissioner of insurance.  The bill directs the 
commissioner to promulgate rules to implement the bill [s requirements, including 
rules that require pharmaceutical representatives to complete continuing 
educational coursework as a condition of licensure.  An individual who violates any 
of the requirements under the bill is subject to a fine, and the individual [s license 
may be suspended or revoked.
Pharmacy services administrative organizations
The bill requires that a pharmacy services administrative organization 
(PSAO) be licensed by OCI.  Under the bill, a PSAO is an entity operating in 
Wisconsin that does all of the following:
1.  Contracts with an independent pharmacy to conduct business on the 
pharmacy [s behalf with a third-party payer.
2.  Provides at least one administrative service to an independent pharmacy 
and negotiates and enters into a contract with a third-party payer or pharmacy 
benefit manager on the pharmacy [s behalf.
The bill defines Xindependent pharmacy Y to mean a licensed pharmacy 
operating in Wisconsin that is under common ownership with no more than two 
other pharmacies.  XAdministrative service Y is defined to mean assisting with 
claims or audits, providing centralized payment, performing certification in a 
specialized care program, providing compliance support, setting flat fees for generic 
drugs, assisting with store layout, managing inventory, providing marketing 
support, providing management and analysis of payment and drug dispensing data, 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 126 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
or providing resources for retail cash cards.  The bill defines Xthird-party payer Y to 
mean an entity operating in Wisconsin that pays or insures health, medical, or 
prescription drug expenses on behalf of beneficiaries.  The bill uses the current law 
definition of Xpharmacy benefit manager, Y which is an entity doing business in 
Wisconsin that contracts to administer or manage prescription drug benefits on 
behalf of an insurer or other entity that provides prescription drug benefits to 
Wisconsin residents.
To obtain the license required by the bill, a person must apply to OCI and 
provide the contact information for the applicant and a contact person, evidence of 
financial responsibility of at least $1,000,000, and any other information required 
by the commissioner of insurance.  Under the bill, the license fee is set by the 
commissioner, and the term of a license is two years.
The bill also requires that a PSAO disclose to OCI the extent of any ownership 
or control by an entity that provides pharmacy services; provides prescription drug 
or device services; or manufactures, sells, or distributes prescription drugs, 
biologicals, or medical devices.  The PSAO must notify OCI within five days of any 
material change in its ownership or control related to such an entity.
Moneys from pharmacy benefit manager regulation used for general 
program operations
The bill credits to the appropriation account for OCI [s general program 
operations all moneys received from the regulation of pharmacy benefit managers, 
pharmacy benefit management brokers, pharmacy benefit management 
consultants, pharmacy services administration organizations, and pharmaceutical 
representatives.
Insurer network adequacy standards
The bill allows OCI to promulgate rules to establish minimum network time 
and distance standards and minimum network wait-time standards for defined 
network plans and preferred provider plans.  The bill specifies that OCI, in 
promulgating rules under the bill, must consider standards adopted by the federal 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for qualified health plans offered on 
the federally facilitated health insurance marketplace established pursuant to the 
ACA.
State-based exchange
The bill directs OCI to establish and operate a state-based health insurance 
exchange.  Under current law, the ACA requires that an exchange be established in 
each state to facilitate the purchase of qualified health insurance coverage by 
individuals and small employers.  Under the ACA, a state must operate its own 
state-based exchange, use the federally facilitated exchange operated by the federal 
Department of Health and Human Services, or adopt a hybrid approach under 
which the state operates a state-based exchange but uses the federal platform, 
known as HealthCare.gov, to handle eligibility and enrollment functions.  
Wisconsin currently uses the federally facilitated exchange.  The bill directs OCI to 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 127 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
establish and operate a state-based exchange, first by using the federal platform 
and then transitioning to a fully state-run exchange.  The bill authorizes OCI to 
enter into any agreement with the federal government necessary to implement 
those provisions.  The bill also requires that OCI impose a user fee on insurers 
offering plans through the state-based exchange.  Under current law, the ACA 
imposes user fees on insurers offering plans through federally facilitated exchanges 
and state-based exchanges using the federal platform, which are currently 1.5 
percent and 1.2 percent of total monthly premiums, respectively.  The bill 
authorizes OCI to impose a user fee at the following rates:
1.  For any plan year that OCI operates the state-based exchange using the 
federal platform, the rate is 0.5 percent.
2.  For the first two plan years that OCI operates the fully state-run exchange, 
the rate is equal to the user fee for the federally facilitated exchanges.  For later 
plan years, the rate is set by OCI by rule.
The bill creates an annual GPR appropriation for OCI [s general program 
operations.  Further, the bill allows OCI to spend up to $500,000 in fiscal year 
2025]26 and up to $500,000 in fiscal year 2026 ]27 for the development of a public 
option health insurance plan.
Telehealth parity
The bill requires health insurance policies and self-insured governmental 
health plans to cover a treatment or service that is provided through telehealth if 
the treatment or service is covered by the policy or plan when provided in person.  A 
policy or plan may limit its coverage to those treatments or services that are 
medically necessary.  XTelehealth Y is defined in the bill as a practice of health care 
delivery, diagnosis, consultation, treatment, or transfer of medically relevant data 
by means of audio, video, or data communications that are used either during a 
patient visit or consultation or are used to transfer medically relevant data about a 
patient.
The bill also sets parameters on the coverage of telehealth treatments and 
services that is required in the bill.  A policy or plan may not subject a telehealth 
treatment or service to a greater deductible, copayment, or coinsurance than if 
provided in person.  Similarly, a policy or plan may not impose a policy or calendar 
year or lifetime benefit limit or other maximum limitation or a prior authorization 
requirement on a telehealth treatment or service that is not imposed on treatments 
or services provided through manners other than telehealth.  A policy or plan also 
may not place unique location requirements on a telehealth treatment or service.  If 
a policy or plan covers a telehealth treatment or service that has no in-person 
equivalent, the policy or plan must disclose this in the policy or plan materials.
Short-term, limited duration plan coverage requirements
The bill sets certain coverage requirements on individual health plans that 
are short-term, limited duration plans.  Under current law, a short-term, limited 
duration plan is individual health benefit plan coverage that is marketed and 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 128 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
designed to provide short-term coverage as a bridge between other coverages and 
that has a term of not more than 12 months and an aggregate term of all 
consecutive periods of coverage that does not exceed 18 months.  Under current law, 
an insurer generally must renew individual health coverage at the option of the 
insured, but an insurer is not required to renew a short-term, limited duration 
plan.
The bill requires an insurer that offers a short-term, limited duration plan to 
accept every individual who applies for coverage, regardless of whether the 
individual has a preexisting condition.  The bill also prohibits a short-term, limited 
duration plan from imposing a preexisting condition exclusion.  Under current law, 
a short-term, limited duration plan may impose a preexisting condition exclusion, 
but the plan must reduce the length of time of the exclusion by the aggregate 
duration of the insured [s consecutive periods of coverage.  Under current law, a 
preexisting condition exclusion is a period of time during which a plan will not cover 
a medical condition for which the insured received some medical attention before 
the effective date of coverage.
Under the bill, an insurer that offers a short-term, limited duration plan may 
not vary premium rates for a specific plan except on the basis of 1) whether the plan 
covers an individual or a family; 2) the area in the state; 3) age; and 4) tobacco use, 
as specified in the bill.  An insurer that offers a short-term, limited duration plan is 
prohibited under the bill from establishing rules for the eligibility of any individual 
to enroll based on certain health status-related factors, which are specified in the 
bill, and from requiring an enrollee to pay a greater premium, contribution, 
deductible, copayment, or coinsurance amount than is required of a similarly 
situated enrollee based on a health status-related factor.  Under the bill, a short-
term, limited duration plan may not establish lifetime limits or limits for the 
duration of the coverage on the dollar value of benefits for an enrollee or a 
dependent of an enrollee under the plan.
Finally, the bill reduces the maximum allowable term of a short-term, limited 
duration plan from 12 months to three months and reduces the maximum 
aggregate duration from 18 months to six months.
Special enrollment period for pregnancy
The bill requires health insurance plans and self-insured governmental health 
plans to allow a pregnant individual who is eligible for coverage under the plan, and 
any individual who is eligible for coverage because of a relationship to the pregnant 
individual, to enroll in the plan at any time during the pregnancy.  Under the bill, 
the coverage must begin no later than the first day of the first calendar month in 
which the pregnant individual receives medical verification of the pregnancy, 
except that the pregnant individual may direct coverage to begin on the first day of 
any month occurring during the pregnancy.  The bill also requires that insurers 
offering group health insurance coverage notify individuals of the special 
enrollment period at or before the time the individual is initially offered the 
opportunity to enroll in the plan.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 129 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Coverage of infertility services
The bill requires health insurance policies and self-insured governmental 
health plans that cover medical or hospital expenses to cover diagnosis of and 
treatment for infertility and standard fertility preservation services.  Coverage 
required under the bill must include at least four completed egg retrievals with 
unlimited embryo transfers, in accordance with certain guidelines, and single 
embryo transfer when recommended and medically appropriate.  Policies and plans 
may not impose an exclusion, limitation, or other restriction on the coverage 
required under the bill on the basis that an insured person participates in fertility 
services provided by or to a third party.  Policies and plans are also prohibited from 
imposing an exclusion, limitation, or other restriction on coverage of medications for 
which the bill requires coverage that is not imposed on any other prescription 
medications covered under the policy or plan.  Similarly, policies and plans may not 
impose any exclusion, limitation, cost-sharing requirement, benefit maximum, 
waiting period, or other restriction on diagnosis, treatment, or services for which 
coverage is required under the bill that is different from any exclusion, limitation, 
cost-sharing requirement, benefit maximum, waiting period, or other restriction 
imposed on benefits for other services.
Coverage of over-the-counter oral contraceptives
Under current law, every health insurance policy and every self-insured 
governmental health plan that covers outpatient health care services, preventive 
treatments and services, or prescription drugs and devices must provide coverage 
for contraceptives prescribed by a health care provider.  Under the bill, these 
insurance policies and health plans must also provide coverage of oral 
contraceptives that are lawfully furnished over the counter without a prescription.
Reimbursement to federal drug pricing program participants
The bill prohibits any person from reimbursing certain entities that 
participate in the federal drug pricing program, known as the 340B Program, for a 
drug subject to an agreement under the program at a rate lower than that paid for 
the same drug to pharmacies that have a similar prescription volume.  The bill also 
prohibits a person from imposing any fee, charge back, or other adjustment on the 
basis of the entity [s participation in the 340B Program.  The entities covered by the 
prohibitions under the bill are federally qualified health centers, critical access 
hospitals, and grantees under the federal Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, as well 
as these entities [ pharmacies and any pharmacy with which any of the entities have 
contracted to dispense drugs through the 340B Program.  The bill allows the 
commissioner of insurance to promulgate rules to establish minimum 
reimbursement rates for entities that participate in the 340B Program.
Reimbursement for emergency ambulance services under health insurance 
policies and plans
The bill makes several changes to the coverage and reimbursement of 
emergency ambulance services under health insurance policies and plans.  First, 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 130 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
the bill requires defined network plans, preferred provider plans, and self-insured 
governmental plans that provide coverage of emergency medical services to cover 
emergency ambulance services provided by an ambulance service provider that is 
not a participating provider at a rate that is the greatest of 1) a rate that is set or 
approved by a local governmental entity in the jurisdiction in which the emergency 
ambulance services originated; 2) a rate that is 400 percent of the current published 
rate for the provided emergency ambulance services established by the federal 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for the Medicare program in the same 
geographic area or a rate that is equivalent to the rate billed by the ambulance 
service provider for emergency ambulance services provided, whichever is less; or 
3) the contracted rate at which the defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or 
self-insured governmental plan would reimburse a participating ambulance service 
provider for the same emergency ambulance services.  The bill prohibits any 
defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured governmental plan 
from imposing a cost-sharing amount on an enrollee for emergency ambulance 
services provided by an ambulance service provider that is not a participating 
provider at a rate that is greater than the requirements that would apply if the 
emergency ambulance services were provided by a participating ambulance service 
provider.  The bill provides that no ambulance service provider that receives 
reimbursement as provided in the bill may charge an enrollee for any additional 
amount for emergency ambulance services except for any copayment, coinsurance, 
deductible, or other cost-sharing responsibilities required to be paid by the enrollee.  
Finally, the bill provides that any health insurance policy or self-insured 
governmental health plan must respond to claims for covered emergency 
ambulance services within 30 days after receipt of the claim and, if the claim is 
without defect, promptly remit payment for the covered emergency ambulance 
services directly to the ambulance service provider.  If the claim has a defect, the 
bill instead requires the health insurance policy or self-insured governmental 
health plan to provide a written notice to the ambulance service provider within 30 
days after receipt of the claim.
Coverage of treatment or services provided by qualified treatment trainees
The bill prohibits any health insurance plan from excluding coverage for 
mental health or behavioral health treatment or services provided by a qualified 
treatment trainee within the scope of the qualified treatment trainee [s education 
and training if the health insurance plan covers the mental health or behavioral 
health treatment or services when provided by another health care provider.  
XQualified treatment trainee Y is defined under current law to mean either a 
graduate student who is enrolled in an accredited institution in psychology, 
counseling, marriage and family therapy, social work, nursing, or a closely related 
field or a person with a graduate degree from an accredited institution and course 
work in psychology, counseling, marriage and family therapy, social work, nursing, 
or a closely related field who has not yet completed the applicable supervised 
practice requirements described under the administrative code.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 131 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Coverage of treatment or services provided by substance abuse counselors
The bill prohibits any health insurance plan from excluding coverage for 
alcoholism or other drug abuse treatment or services provided by a certified 
substance abuse counselor within the scope of the substance abuse counselor [s 
education and training if the health insurance plan covers the alcoholism or other 
drug abuse treatment or services when provided by another health care provider.  
XSubstance abuse counselor Y is defined under current law to mean a substance 
abuse counselor-in-training, a substance abuse counselor, or a clinical substance 
abuse counselor.
Coverage of services, treatment, or procedures provided by dental therapists
Current law prohibits any health insurance plan from excluding coverage for 
diagnosis and treatment of a condition or complaint by a dental therapist within the 
scope of the dental therapist [s license if the health insurance plan covers diagnosis 
and treatment of the condition or complaint by another health care provider.  The 
bill instead prohibits any health insurance plan from excluding coverage for dental 
services, treatment, or procedures provided by a dental therapist within the scope 
of the dental therapist [s license if the health insurance plan covers the dental 
services, treatment, or procedures when provided by another health care provider.  
XDental therapist Y is defined under current law as an individual who engages in 
the limited practice of dentistry.
Cost-sharing cap on insulin
The bill prohibits every health insurance policy and governmental self-insured 
health plan that covers insulin and imposes cost sharing on prescription drugs from 
imposing cost sharing on insulin in an amount that exceeds $35 for a one-month 
supply.  Current law requires every health insurance policy that provides coverage 
of expenses incurred for treatment of diabetes to provide coverage for specified 
expenses and items, including insulin.  The required coverage under current law for 
certain diabetes treatments other than insulin infusion pumps is subject to the 
same exclusions, limitations, deductibles, and coinsurance provisions of the policy 
as other covered expenses.  The bill [s cost-sharing limitation on insulin supersedes 
the specification that the exclusions, limitations, deductibles, and coinsurance are 
the same as for other coverage.
Insulin safety net programs
The bill requires insulin manufacturers to establish a program under which 
qualifying Wisconsin residents who are in urgent need of insulin and are uninsured 
or have limited insurance coverage can be dispensed insulin at a pharmacy.  Under 
the program, if a qualifying individual in urgent need of insulin provides a 
pharmacy with a form attesting that the individual meets the program [s eligibility 
requirements, specified proof of residency, and a valid insulin prescription, the 
pharmacy must dispense a 30-day supply of insulin to the individual and may 
charge the individual a copayment of no more than $35.  The pharmacy may submit 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 132 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
an electronic payment claim for the insulin [s acquisition cost to the manufacturer or 
agree to receive a replacement of the same insulin in the amount dispensed.
The bill also requires that each insulin manufacturer establish a patient 
assistance program to make insulin available to any qualifying Wisconsin resident 
who, among other requirements, is uninsured or has limited insurance coverage 
and whose family income does not exceed 400 percent of the federal poverty line.  
Under the bill, an individual must apply to participate in a manufacturer [s 
program.  If the manufacturer determines that the individual meets the program [s 
eligibility requirements, the manufacturer must issue the individual a statement of 
eligibility, which is valid for 12 months and may be renewed.  Under the bill, if an 
individual with a statement of eligibility and valid insulin prescription requests 
insulin from a pharmacy, the pharmacy must submit an order to the manufacturer, 
who must then provide a 90-day supply of insulin at no charge to the individual or 
pharmacy.  The pharmacy may charge the individual a copayment of no more than 
$50.  Under the bill, a manufacturer is not required to issue a statement of 
eligibility if the individual has prescription drug coverage through an individual or 
group health plan and the manufacturer determines that the individual [s insulin 
needs are better addressed through the manufacturer [s copayment assistance 
program.  In such case, the manufacturer must provide the individual with the 
necessary drug coupons, and the individual may not be required to pay more than a 
$50 copayment for a 90-day supply of insulin.
Under the bill, if the manufacturer determines that an individual is not 
eligible for the patient assistance program, the individual may file an appeal with 
OCI.  The bill directs OCI to establish procedures for deciding appeals.  Under the 
bill, OCI must issue a decision within 10 days, and that decision is final.
The bill requires that insulin manufacturers annually report to OCI certain 
information, including the number of individuals served and the cost of insulin 
dispensed under the programs and that OCI annually report to the governor and 
the legislature on the programs.  The bill also directs OCI to conduct public 
outreach and develop an information sheet about the programs, conduct 
satisfaction surveys of individuals and pharmacies that participate in the 
programs, and report to the governor and the legislature on the surveys by July 1, 
2028.  Additionally, the bill requires that OCI develop a training program for health 
care navigators to assist individuals in accessing appropriate long-term insulin 
options and maintain a list of trained navigators.
The bill provides that a manufacturer that violates the bill [s provisions may be 
required to forfeit not more than $200,000 per month of violation, which increases 
to $400,000 per month if the manufacturer continues to be in violation after six 
months and to $600,000 per month if the manufacturer continues to be in violation 
after one year.  The bill [s requirements do not apply to manufacturers with annual 
insulin sales revenue in Wisconsin of no more than $2,000,000 or to insulin that 
costs less than a specified dollar amount.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 133 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Value-based diabetes medication pilot project
The bill directs OCI to develop a pilot project under which a pharmacy benefit 
manager and a pharmaceutical manufacturer are directed to create a value-based, 
sole-source arrangement to reduce the costs of prescription diabetes medication.  
The bill allows OCI to promulgate rules to implement the pilot project.
Funding for health insurance navigators
The bill directs the commissioner of insurance to award $500,000 in fiscal year 
2025-26 and $500,000 in fiscal year 2026-27 to a licensed navigator to prioritize 
services for the direct care workforce population.  Navigators are individuals or 
entities that perform certain duties, including conducting public education 
activities to raise awareness of the availability of qualified health plans, 
distributing fair and impartial information concerning enrollment in qualified 
health plans, facilitating enrollment in qualified health plans, and providing 
referrals for any enrollee with a grievance, complaint, or question regarding their 
health plan, coverage, or a determination under such plan or coverage.
Health Insurance Risk-Sharing Plan balance transfer
The Health Insurance Risk-Sharing Plan (HIRSP) provided health insurance 
coverage in individual policies to certain eligible individuals, including individuals 
who were refused coverage in the private health insurance market because of their 
mental or physical condition.  HIRSP was dissolved and, by March 31, 2014, all 
coverage under HIRSP was finally terminated.  2015 Wisconsin Act 55 repealed two 
appropriations to OCI that provided funding for the affairs of HIRSP and for 
winding up the affairs of HIRSP.  The bill transfers any balance that was credited to 
those appropriations and not lapsed as a result of 2015 Wisconsin Act 55 to the 
general program operations appropriation for OCI in fiscal year 2025-26.
Wisconsin Healthcare Stability Plan spending limit
Under current law, the Wisconsin Healthcare Stability Plan (WIHSP) makes a 
reinsurance payment to a health insurance carrier if the claims for an individual 
who is enrolled in a health benefit plan with that carrier exceed a threshold amount 
in a benefit year.  WIHSP is administered by OCI and operates under specific terms 
and conditions of a waiver agreement between OCI and the federal Department of 
Health and Human Services, which was dated July 29, 2018, and extended 
December 1, 2022.  Currently, the commissioner of insurance is limited to spending 
$230,000,000 for WIHSP from all revenue sources in a year, unless JCF increases 
the amount.  Under the bill, the governor, not JCF, may increase the spending limit.  
In addition, the bill increases the spending limit to $250,000,000 in 2026, and 
beginning in 2027, the bill directs the commissioner to annually adjust the 
spending limit based on the increase, if any, in the medical care index of the 
consumer price index.  The bill also specifies that OCI [s authority includes the 
authority to operate WIHSP under any waiver extension approvals.
JUSTICE
Powers of the attorney general
The bill repeals changes made to the powers of the attorney general in 2017 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 134 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Wisconsin Act 369 relating to the power to compromise or discontinue civil actions 
prosecuted by DOJ and the power to compromise and settle actions in cases where 
DOJ is defending the state.  The bill reestablishes these settlement powers as they 
existed under the law before 2017 Wisconsin Act 369 was enacted.
The bill allows the attorney general to compromise or discontinue actions 
prosecuted by DOJ 1) when directed by the officer, department, board, or 
commission that directed the prosecution or 2) with the approval of the governor 
when the action is prosecuted by DOJ on the initiative of the attorney general or at 
the request of any individual.  The bill eliminates the requirement for approval of a 
compromise or discontinuance from a legislative intervenor or JCF.  It also 
eliminates the requirement for the attorney general to obtain approval of a 
compromise or discontinuance by the Joint Committee on Legislative Organization 
(JLCO) in certain circumstances before submitting a proposed plan to JCF.
Under the bill, when DOJ is defending the state, the attorney general may 
compromise and settle the action as the attorney general determines to be in the 
best interest of the state.  The bill eliminates the requirement under current law 
that, in actions for injunctive relief or if there is a proposed consent decree, the 
attorney general must 1) obtain the approval of any legislative intervenor or 2) if 
there is no intervenor, submit a proposed plan to JCF and, in certain 
circumstances, obtain approval of JCF.  The bill also eliminates the requirement for 
the attorney general to obtain approval from JCLO in certain circumstances before 
submitting a proposed plan of settlement or compromise to JCF.
Crime victim services grants
Current law provides for a number of surcharges that a court must impose on 
a person who is found to have committed crimes or violated ordinances.  The bill 
creates a new crime victim services surcharge and requires a court to impose the 
surcharge when imposing a sentence, a period of probation, or a civil forfeiture on a 
person.  The amount of the surcharge is the sum of 40 percent of any fine or 
forfeiture imposed or $40, whichever is greater, plus $50 for each conviction of a 
misdemeanor or felony.
The bill requires DOJ to use the funds collected from the surcharge to award 
grants to organizations that are eligible for federal funds to provide crime victim 
assistance.  The grants from DOJ are intended to supplement any federal funds.  In 
addition, the bill authorizes DOA to supplement the funds available for the grants 
if DOA determines that the amounts available are insufficient for crime victim 
services.  Under the bill, if DOA determines the amounts available are insufficient, 
the amount that may be supplemented is capped at the difference between 
$44,500,000 and the sum of the federal funds received in that fiscal year for crime 
victim assistance plus the funds collected in that fiscal year from the crime victim 
services surcharge created in the bill.
Alternatives to prosecution and incarceration programs
Under current law, DOJ operates the alternatives to incarceration grant 
program and the drug courts grant program.  Under these programs, DOJ provides 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 135 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
grants to counties and tribes for providing alternatives to prosecution and 
incarceration for persons who abuse alcohol or other drugs and diverting substance-
abusing persons from prison or jail into treatment.
Under the bill, December 31, 2026, is the last day these DOJ grant programs 
will be in effect.  Beginning on January 1, 2027, DOA will operate a grant program 
for tribes to provide alternatives to prosecution and incarceration programs, and 
counties will be required to operate such programs to be eligible for certain circuit 
court payments from the director of state courts.
The bill also transfers 3.0 FTE GPR positions that administer the alternatives 
to incarceration grant program, and the incumbent employees holding those 
positions, from DOJ to the Wisconsin Supreme Court on January 1, 2027.
Eliminating the sunset on funding for the Office of School Safety
2023 Wisconsin Act 240 increased the number of positions for the Office of 
School Safety (OSS) in DOJ by 14.2 project positions for the period beginning on 
January 1, 2025, and ending on October 1, 2025, and allowed, for the same period, 
DOJ to fund the positions and other OSS duties using the fees that DOJ collects for 
issuing licenses to carry concealed weapons.  The bill eliminates the sunset on using 
the fees so that DOJ may continue using the fees to fund positions and other OSS 
duties.
Law enforcement officer training requirements
The bill provides that the Law Enforcement Standards Board may not prevent 
noncitizens who are in receipt of valid employment authorization from the federal 
Department of Homeland Security from participating in a law enforcement 
preparatory training program.
Project employees of DOJ offices under ARPA
The bill provides that individuals who are in project positions that were 
funded by the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and who are employed by DOJ 
may be appointed to equivalent permanent positions at DOJ without going through 
the civil service hiring process as new hires.
Appropriation for restitution moneys
The bill makes a technical change to DOJ [s restitution appropriation to 
provide that it also includes all moneys received by DOJ under any other 
unspecified court order or settlement agreement for the purpose of providing 
restitution to victims.
Project attorney reporting requirement
2017 Wisconsin Act 261 created two field prosecutor attorney project positions 
to assist DOJ [s Division of Criminal Investigation and provided that those positions 
would terminate five years after the effective date of the act.  The act also created a 
requirement that DOJ submit an annual report to JCF describing the activities and 
effectiveness of those field prosecutor attorneys.  Those positions have expired.
The bill eliminates the reporting requirement relating to those expired field 
prosecutor attorney project positions.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 136 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Law enforcement officer training reimbursement
The bill makes a technical change relating to the appropriations from which 
reimbursements for law enforcement officer training are paid.
Relator appropriation
The bill creates a continuing appropriation to hold all moneys received by DOJ 
that is owed to a relator, to provide payments to relators.  A relator is a type of party 
in a legal action in whose name an action is brought by a state.
Gifts and grants and disposition of settlement funds
The bill repeals certain changes made by 2017 Wisconsin Act 369 relating to 
gifts and grants and certain proceeds received by DOJ, specifically reversing 
provisions that changed a DOJ gifts and grants appropriation and a DOJ gifts, 
grants, and proceeds appropriation from continuing appropriations to annual 
appropriations.
The bill also repeals the requirement that the attorney general must deposit 
all settlement funds into the general fund.  The bill restores procedures relating to 
discretionary settlement funds under which the attorney general could expend 
certain settlement funds not committed under the terms of a settlement after 
submitting a plan to JCF for passive review only if either 1) the cochairpersons of 
JCF do not schedule a meeting or 2) a meeting is scheduled and JCF approves a 
plan for expenditure.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
GENERAL  LOCAL  GOVERNMENT
Local landlord-tenant ordinances
Current law prohibits political subdivisions from enacting certain ordinances 
relating to landlords and tenants.  Political subdivisions may not do any of the 
following:
1.  Prohibit or limit landlords from obtaining or using certain information 
relating to a tenant or prospective tenant, including monthly household income, 
occupation, rental history, credit information, court records, and social security 
numbers.
2.  Limit how far back in time a landlord may look at a prospective tenant [s 
credit information, conviction record, or previous housing.
3.  Prohibit or limit a landlord from entering into a rental agreement with a 
prospective tenant while the premises are occupied by a current tenant.
4.  Prohibit or limit a landlord from showing a premises to a prospective tenant 
during a current tenant [s tenancy.
5.  Place requirements on a landlord with respect to security deposits or 
earnest money or inspections that are in addition to what is required under 
administrative rules.
6.  Limit a tenant [s responsibility for any damage to or neglect of the premises.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 137 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
7.  Require a landlord to provide to tenants or to the political subdivision any 
information that is not required to be provided under federal or state law.
8.  Require a residential property to be inspected except under certain 
circumstances.
9.  Impose an occupancy or transfer of tenancy fee on a rental unit.
Current law also prohibits political subdivisions from regulating rent 
abatement in a way that permits abatement for conditions other than those that 
materially affect the health or safety of the tenant or that substantially affect the 
use and occupancy of the premises.  The bill eliminates all of these prohibitions.
Local moratorium on evictions
Current law prohibits political subdivisions from imposing a moratorium on 
landlords from pursuing eviction actions against a tenant.  The bill eliminates that 
prohibition.
Rental property inspection requirements
The bill makes various changes to the requirements relating to inspections of 
rental properties.  The bill eliminates existing limitations on inspection fees that 
political subdivisions may charge for rental property inspections.  Under the bill, a 
landlord must provide notice to a tenant of an impending inspection in the same 
manner the landlord would provide notice under current law to enter for repairs or 
to show the property to prospective tenants.  The bill also provides that rental 
property inspection fees charged by a political subdivision are not subject to 
deduction from the political subdivision [s tax levy.
Local government civil service system and grievance procedure 
requirements
The bill modifies the requirements for any grievance system established by 
local governmental units, including adding a requirement for any civil service 
system or grievance procedure to include a just cause standard of review for 
employee terminations.  Under current law, a local governmental unit that did not 
have a civil service system before June 29, 2011, must have established a grievance 
system.  In order to comply with the requirement to have established a grievance 
system, a local governmental unit may establish either 1) a civil service system 
under any provision authorized by law, to the greatest extent practicable, if no 
specific provision for creation of a civil service system applies to the governmental 
unit or 2) a grievance procedure as set forth in the statutes.  Current law requires 
that any civil service system established or grievance procedure created must 
contain a grievance procedure that addresses employee terminations, employee 
discipline, and workplace safety.  The bill does not eliminate the requirement for 
these provisions but instead adds a requirement for a provision relating to a just 
cause standard of review for employee terminations, including a refusal to renew a 
teaching contract.
Current law also requires that if a local governmental unit creates a grievance 
procedure, the procedure must contain certain elements, including a written 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 138 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
document specifying the process that a grievant and an employer must follow; a 
hearing before an impartial hearing officer; and an appeal process in which the 
highest level of appeal is the governing body of the local governmental unit.  The bill 
provides that the hearing officer must be from the Wisconsin Employment 
Relations Commission and adds the following two additional required elements in 
the grievance procedure:  1) a provision indicating the grievant is entitled to 
representation throughout the grievance process and 2) a provision indicating that 
the employer must bear all fees and costs related to the grievance process, except 
the grievant [s representational fees and costs.
Local employment regulations
The bill eliminates the preemptions of local governments from enacting or 
enforcing ordinances related to the following:
1.  Regulations related to wage claims and collections.
2.  Regulation of employee hours and overtime, including scheduling of 
employee work hours or shifts.
3.  The employment benefits an employer may be required to provide to its 
employees.
4.  An employer [s right to solicit information regarding the salary history of 
prospective employees.
5.  Regulations related to minimum wage.
6.  Occupational licensing requirements that are more stringent than a state 
requirement.
Certain state and local employment regulations
The bill eliminates the following:
1.  The prohibition of the state and local governments from requiring any 
person to waive the person [s rights under state or federal labor laws as a condition 
of any approval by the state or local government.
2.  A provision under which neither the state nor a local government may 
enact a statute or ordinance, adopt a policy or regulation, or impose a contract, 
zoning, permitting, or licensing requirement, or any other condition, that would 
require any person to accept any provision that is a subject of collective bargaining 
under state labor laws or the federal National Labor Relations Act.
Project labor agreements
Under current law, the state and local units of government are prohibited from 
engaging in certain practices in letting bids for state procurement or public works 
contracts. Among these prohibitions, the state and local governments may not do 
any of the following in specifications for bids for the contracts: 1) require that a 
bidder enter into an agreement with a labor organization; 2) consider, when 
awarding a contract, whether a bidder has or has not entered into an agreement 
with a labor organization; or 3) require that a bidder enter into an agreement that 
requires that the bidder or bidder [s employees become or remain members of a labor 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 139 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
organization or pay any dues or fees to a labor organization.  The bill eliminates 
these limitations related to labor organizations.
Exception to local law enforcement officer citizenship requirement
Under current law, no person may be appointed as a deputy sheriff of any 
county or police officer of any city, village, or town unless that person is a citizen of 
the United States.  The bill allows the sheriff of a county or the appointing 
authority of a local law enforcement agency to elect to authorize the appointment of 
noncitizens who are in receipt of valid employment authorization from the federal 
Department of Homeland Security as deputy sheriffs or police officers.  The bill 
also prevents the Law Enforcement Standards Board from preventing such a 
noncitizen from participating in a law enforcement preparatory training program.
Register of deeds recording fees; land information program
The bill increases the general recording and filing fees charged by county 
registers of deeds, increases the amount of the fees that counties must submit to 
DOA for the land information program, and increases the minimum grant amount 
DOA may award to counties for education and training grants under the program.
Under current law, DOA directs and supervises the land information program 
and serves as a state clearinghouse for access to land information.  Under the land 
information program, DOA provides technical assistance to state agencies and local 
governmental units with land information responsibilities, reviews and approves 
county plans for land records modernization, and provides aids to counties, derived 
from recording fee revenues collected by counties, for land records modernization 
projects.
Under current law, counties collect fees for recording or filing instruments 
that are recorded or filed with a register of deeds.  Currently, the general fee for 
recording or filing an instrument is $30.  Currently, a county must submit $15 of 
each $30 recording fee to DOA for the land information program, but the county 
may retain $8 of the amount it would have been required to submit to DOA if the 
county meets certain requirements, including establishing a land information office 
and council and using the retained fees to develop, implement, and maintain a 
DOA-approved countywide plan for land records modernization on the Internet.
The bill increases from $30 to $45 the general recording and filing fee.  The bill 
also increases from $15 to $30 the amount of each fee that a county must submit to 
DOA and increases from $8 to $15 the amount the county may retain if the current 
law requirements are met.
Under current law, DOA awards land information system base budget grants 
to counties to enable county land information offices to develop, maintain, and 
operate basic land information systems.  Currently, the minimum amount of a 
grant is $100,000 less the amount of certain fees retained by the county in the 
preceding fiscal year.  The bill increases that base amount to $140,000 less the 
retained fees.
Under current law, DOA may award a grant under the land information 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 140 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
program to any county in an amount not less than $1,000 per year to be used for the 
training and education of county employees for the design, development, and 
implementation of a land information system.  The bill increases from $1,000 to 
$5,0000 the minimum training and education grant amount.
Municipal records filings and filing requirements for certain annexations
The bill transfers the duty of filing certain municipal records from the 
secretary of state to the secretary of administration and transfers certain records 
held by the secretary of state to instead be held by DOA.  2015 Wisconsin Act 55 
transferred some, but not all, municipal records filing duties from the secretary of 
state to DOA.  The bill completes the transfer of these duties from the secretary of 
state to DOA for all municipal filing categories.
The bill also replaces the term XplatY with the term Xscale map Y in certain 
filing statutes to conform with existing statutory requirements for certain filings, 
including petitions for incorporation and for annexation.  The bill reduces the 
number of copies that must be provided to DOA in certain circumstances from 
multiple copies to just one copy.  The bill also requires that certain boundary 
agreements between municipalities be filed and recorded with the register of deeds 
if an enacting ordinance is not anticipated to be enacted within 30 days.
Local advisory referenda
Under current law, a county may not conduct a countywide advisory 
referendum unless it regards a political subdivision revenue sharing agreement or 
capital expenditures proposed to be funded by the county property tax levy. In 
addition, current law prohibits a municipality from conducting an advisory 
referendum unless it regards tax incremental financing, a local government 
telecommunications utility, or capital expenditures proposed to be funded by the 
municipality [s property tax levy.
The bill eliminates these restrictions and specifically authorizes a county to 
conduct referenda for advisory purposes.
Provision and funding of emergency medical services by towns
The bill authorizes a town to contract for or maintain emergency medical 
services for the town.  The bill also authorizes a town to do any of the following for 
the purpose of funding these emergency medical services:
1. Appropriate money.
2.  Charge property owners a fee for the cost of emergency medical services 
provided to their property according to a written schedule established by the town 
board.
3.  Levy taxes on the entire town.
4.  Levy taxes on property served by a particular source of emergency medical 
services, to support the source of emergency medical services.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 141 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
LEVY LIMITS
Levy limits under current law
Generally, under current law, local levy increase limits are applied to the 
property tax levies that are imposed by a political subdivision in December of each 
year.  Current law prohibits any political subdivision from increasing its levy by a 
percentage that exceeds its valuation factor.  XValuation factor Y is defined as the 
greater of either 0 percent or, in general, the percentage change in the political 
subdivision [s equalized value due to new construction, less improvements removed.
Current law contains a number of exceptions to the local levy limits, such as 
amounts a county levies for a countywide emergency medical system, for a county 
children with disabilities education board, and for certain bridge and culvert 
construction and repair.  In addition, a political subdivision may exceed the levy 
increase limit that is otherwise applicable if its governing body adopts a resolution 
to do so and if that resolution is approved by the electors in a referendum.
Levy limit reduction for service transfers
Under current law, if a political subdivision transfers to another governmental 
unit the responsibility to provide a service that it provided in the previous year, the 
levy increase limit otherwise applicable in the current year is decreased to reflect 
the cost that the political subdivision would have incurred to provide that service.  
The bill eliminates that provision.
Joint emergency services levy limit exception modification
Among the current law exceptions to local levy limits is an exception for the 
amount that a municipality levies to pay for charges assessed by a joint fire 
department or joint emergency medical services district organized by any 
combination of two or more municipalities.  This exception applies only to the 
extent that the amount levied to pay for such charges would cause the municipality 
to exceed the otherwise applicable levy limit and only if the charges assessed by the 
joint fire department or joint emergency medical services district increase in the 
current year by an amount not greater than the rate of inflation over the preceding 
year, plus 2 percent, and if the municipality [s governing body adopts a resolution in 
favor of exceeding the otherwise applicable levy limit.
Under the bill, the exception is expanded to include joint fire services or joint 
emergency medical services provided by a combination of two or more 
municipalities through a joint district, joint ownership, joint purchase of services 
from a nonprofit corporation, or joint contracting with a public or private services 
provider.  The exception is also expanded to cover all fees charged to a municipality 
by the joint fire services or joint emergency medical services.
Levy limit exclusion for cross-municipality transit routes
Under the bill, amounts levied by a political subdivision for costs related to 
new or enhanced transit services that cross adjacent county or municipal borders do 
not apply to the local levy limits if the political subdivisions between which the 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 142 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
routes operate have entered into an agreement to provide for the services and if the 
agreement is approved in a referendum.
Levy limit exception for regional planning commission contributions
The bill creates a local levy increase limit exception for the amount a political 
subdivision levies to pay for the political subdivision [s share of the budget of a 
regional planning commission (RPC).  An RPC [s budget is determined annually by 
the RPC.  The RPC then charges all political subdivisions within its jurisdiction a 
proportional amount to fund the budget based on the equalized value of property in 
the political subdivision and the total amount of equalized value of property within 
the RPC [s jurisdiction.
TAX INCREMENTAL  FINANCING
Tax incremental financing under current law
Under current law, cities and villages may use tax incremental financing 
(TIF) to encourage development in the city or village.  In general, under TIF, a city 
or village pays for improvements in a tax incremental district (TID) and then 
collects tax moneys attributable to all taxing jurisdictions on the increased 
property value in the TID for a certain period of time to pay for the improvements.  
Ideally, after the period of time, the city or village will have been repaid for its 
initial investment, and the property tax base in the TID will have permanently 
increased in value.
In general and in brief, a city or village makes use of TIF using the following 
procedure:
1.  The city or village designates an area as a TID and creates a project plan 
laying out the expenditures that the city or village will make within the TID.
2.  DOR establishes the Xbase value Y of the TID.  This value is the equalized 
value of all taxable property within the TID at the time of its creation.
3.  Each year thereafter, the Xvalue increment Y of the property within the TID 
is determined by subtracting the base value from the current value of property 
within the TID.  The portion of taxes collected on any positive value increment is 
collected by the city or village for use solely for the project costs of the TID.  The 
taxes collected by the city or village on positive value increments include taxes that 
would have been collected by other taxing jurisdictions, such as counties or school 
districts, were the TID not created.
4.  Tax increments are collected until the city or village has recovered all of its 
project costs or until the TID reaches its statutory termination date.
Workforce housing initiatives
The bill authorizes workforce housing initiatives and makes changes that 
affect TIDs and state housing grants.  The bill creates a definition for Xworkforce 
housing, Y changes the definition of a Xmixed-use development Y TID, requires a 
TID[s project plan to contain alternative economic projections, and changes the 
method of imposing certain impact fees.
Under the bill, a political subdivision may put into effect a workforce housing 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 143 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
initiative by taking one of several specified actions and posting on its website an 
explanation of the initiative.  Workforce housing initiatives include the following: 
reducing permit processing times or impact fees for workforce housing; increasing 
zoning density for a workforce housing development; rehabilitating existing 
uninhabitable housing stock into habitable workforce housing; or implementing 
any other initiative to address workforce housing needs.  Once an initiative takes 
effect, it remains in effect for five years.  After June 30, 2026, if a political 
subdivision has in effect at least three initiatives at the same time, DOA must give 
priority to housing grant applications from, or related to a project in, the political 
subdivision.
The bill defines Xworkforce housing Y to mean both of the following, subject to 
the five-year average median costs as determined by the U.S. Bureau of the Census:
1.  Housing that costs a household no more than 30 percent of the household [s 
gross median income.
2.  Housing that is comprised of residential units for initial occupancy by 
individuals whose household median income is no more than 120 percent of the 
county[s gross median income.
Under current law, a mixed-use development TID contains a combination of 
industrial, commercial, or residential uses, although newly platted residential 
areas may not exceed more than 35 percent of the real property within the TID.  
Under the bill, newly platted residential areas may not exceed either the 35 percent 
limit or 60 percent of the real property within the TID if the newly platted 
residential use that exceeds 35 percent is used solely for workforce housing.
The bill also requires a TID [s project plan to include alternative projections of 
the TID[s finances and feasibility under different economic situations, including a 
slower pace of development and lower rate of property value growth than expected 
in the TID.
Currently, a city or village may extend the life of a TID for up to one year for 
housing stock improvement if all of the following occurs:
1.  The city or village pays off all of the TID [s project costs.
2.  The city or village adopts a resolution stating that it intends to extend the 
life of the TID, the number of months it intends to do so, and how it intends to 
improve housing stock.
3.  The city or village notifies DOR.
Current law requires the city or village to use 75 percent of the tax increments 
received during the period specified in the resolution to benefit affordable housing 
in the city or village and 25 percent to improve the city [s or village [s housing stock.
Under the bill, a city or village may extend the life of a TID to improve its 
housing stock or to increase the number of affordable and workforce housing 
improvements, with at least 50 percent of the funds supporting units for families 
with incomes of up to 60 percent of the county [s median income.  Also under the bill, 
this extension may be for up to three years.  However, for any extension of more 
than one year, the other taxing jurisdictions must approve of the extension.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 144 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Under current law, if a city, village, or town imposes an impact fee on a 
developer to pay for certain capital costs to accommodate land development, the 
city, village, or town may provide in the ordinance an exemption from, or a 
reduction in the amount of, impact fees on land development that provides low-cost 
housing.  Under the bill, the impact fee exemption or reduction provisions also apply 
to workforce housing.  Current law prevents the shifting of an exemption from or 
reduction in impact fees to any other development in the land development in which 
the low-cost housing is located.  The bill applies this provision to workforce housing 
as well.
Reclassification of TID to mixed-use TID
When a TID is created, the city or village must designate the TID as one of 
several sorts of TID: blighted area, rehabilitation or conservation, industrial, or 
mixed-use.  The application of certain rules vary depending on the classification of 
the TID.  For example, blighted area TIDs have a longer potential lifespan than 
industrial or mixed-use TIDs.
Under the bill, a city or village may change the classification of a TID to a 
mixed-use TID after the creation of the TID.  The TID would retain the lifespan and 
tax collection features of the original classification but would gain the features of a 
mixed-use TID.  The principal difference between mixed-use TIDs and other TIDs is 
the ability within certain limits to spend tax increments on newly platted 
residential development.
TIF 12 percent rule exception
Under current law, when creating a new TID or amending a TID, a city or 
village must make a finding that the equalized value of taxable property of the new 
or amended TID plus the value increment of all existing TIDs in the city or village 
does not exceed 12 percent of the total equalized value of taxable property in the 
city or village.  Under the bill, in lieu of making the 12 percent finding, a city or 
village may certify to DOR that 1) TIDs with sufficient value increments will close 
within one year after certification so that the city or village will no longer exceed 
the 12 percent limit and 2) the city or village will not take any actions that would 
extend the life of any TID under item 1.
MARIJUANA LEGALIZATION AND REGULATION
Under the bill, a person who is at least 21 years old may legally possess 
marijuana.  A person who is at least 18 may possess marijuana if the person has 
certain medical conditions.  Under the bill, a person may produce, process, or sell 
marijuana if the person has a permit.  The bill creates an excise tax for the privilege 
of producing, processing, distributing, or selling marijuana in this state.  All of the 
revenue collected from the tax is deposited into the general fund.  Under the bill, a 
person who may possess medical marijuana is not subject to sales or excise taxes on 
the purchase or use of the marijuana.  The bill also regulates delta-8 THC and 
delta-10 THC as marijuana.  The bill does not affect federal law, which generally 
prohibits persons from manufacturing, delivering, or possessing marijuana and 
applies to both intrastate and interstate violations.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 145 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Legalizing the possession of marijuana
Current law prohibits a person from manufacturing, distributing, or 
delivering marijuana; possessing marijuana with the intent to manufacture, 
distribute, or deliver it; possessing or attempting to possess marijuana; using drug 
paraphernalia; or possessing drug paraphernalia with the intent to produce, 
distribute, or use a controlled substance.  The bill changes state law to allow a 
Wisconsin resident who is at least 21 to possess no more than two ounces of 
marijuana and to allow a nonresident of Wisconsin who is at least 21 to possess no 
more than one-quarter ounce of marijuana.  The bill also allows a qualifying patient 
to possess marijuana for medical purposes.  Under the bill, generally, a qualifying 
patient is an individual who has been diagnosed by a physician as having or 
undergoing a debilitating medical condition or treatment and who is at least 18 
years old.  The bill also eliminates the prohibition on possessing or using drug 
paraphernalia that relates to marijuana consumption.
Under the bill, a person who possesses more marijuana than the maximum 
amount the person is allowed is subject to a penalty, which varies depending on the 
amount of overage.  A person who exceeds the amount by not more than one ounce 
is subject to a civil forfeiture not to exceed $1,000.  A person who exceeds the 
maximum amount by more than one ounce is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject 
to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or both.  
The person is guilty of a Class I felony if the person also takes action to hide the 
amount of marijuana they have and has in place a security system to alert them to 
the presence of law enforcement or a method to intimidate, or a system that could 
injure or kill, a person approaching the area containing the marijuana.
Regulating the production, processing, and selling marijuana
Under the bill, no person may sell, distribute, or transfer marijuana unless the 
person has a permit from DOR.  A person that violates this prohibition is guilty of a 
Class I felony if the intended recipient is an adult and is guilty of a Class H felony if 
the intended recipient is a minor and the person is at least three years older than 
the minor.
The bill requires a person to obtain separate permits from DOR to produce, 
process, distribute, or sell marijuana, and requires marijuana producers and 
processors to obtain additional permits from DATCP.  The requirements for 
obtaining these permits differ based on whether the permit is issued by DOR or 
DATCP but, in general, a person may not obtain such a permit if they are not a state 
resident, are under the age of 21, or have been convicted of certain crimes or 
committed certain offenses.  In addition, a person may not operate under a DOR or 
DATCP permit within 500 feet of a school, playground, recreation facility, child care 
facility, public park, public transit facility, or library.  A person that holds a permit 
from DOR must also comply with certain operational requirements.
Under the bill, a permit applicant with 20 or more employees may not receive 
a permit from DATCP or DOR unless the the applicant certifies that the applicant 
has entered into a labor peace agreement with a labor organization.  The labor 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 146 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
peace agreement must prohibit the labor organization and its members from 
engaging in any economic interference with persons doing business in this state, 
must prohibit the applicant from disrupting the efforts of the labor organization to 
communicate with and to organize and represent the applicant [s employees, and 
must provide the labor organization access to areas in which the employees work to 
discuss employment rights and the terms and conditions of employment.  Current 
law prohibits the state and any local unit of government from requiring a labor 
peace agreement as a condition for any regulatory approval.  The permit 
requirements under the bill are not subject to that prohibition.
The bill also requires DATCP and DOR to use a competitive scoring system to 
determine which applicants are eligible to receive permits.  Each department must 
issue permits to the highest scoring applicants that it determines will best protect 
the environment; provide stable, family-supporting jobs to local residents; ensure 
worker and consumer safety; operate secure facilities; and uphold the laws of the 
jurisdictions in which they operate.  Each department may deny a permit to an 
applicant with a low score.
The bill prohibits a DOR permittee from selling, distributing, or transferring 
marijuana to a person who is under the age of 21 (a minor) and from allowing a 
minor to be on premises for which a permit is issued.  If a permittee violates one of 
those prohibitions, the permittee may be subject to a civil forfeiture of not more 
than $500 and the permit may be suspended for up to 30 days.
Under the bill, a minor who does any of the following is subject to a forfeiture 
of not less than $250 nor more than $500: procures or attempts to procure 
marijuana from a permittee; falsely represents their age to receive marijuana from 
a permittee; knowingly possesses marijuana; or knowingly enters any premises for 
which a permit has been issued without being accompanied by their parent, 
guardian, or spouse who is at least 21 years of age or at least 18 years of age if a 
qualifying patient.
Under the bill, an individual may cultivate as many as six marijuana plants.  
Only a person that has a permit from DATCP may produce or process more 
marijuana plants.  A person without a permit who possesses more than six but not 
more than 12 marijuana plants that have reached the flowering stage is subject to 
a civil forfeiture not to exceed twice the permitting fee, which is $250 under the bill.  
If the person possesses more than 12 plants that have reached the flowering stage, 
the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000 or 
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or both.  The person is guilty of a Class I felony 
if the person also takes action to hide the number of plants they have and the 
person also has in place a security system to alert him or her to the presence of law 
enforcement or a method to intimidate, or a system that could injure or kill, a 
person approaching the area containing the plants.
The bill requires DOR to create and maintain a medical marijuana registry 
program whereby a person who is a qualifying patient may obtain a registry 
identification card and purchase marijuana from a retail establishment without 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 147 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
having to pay the sales or excise taxes imposed on that sale.  A Xqualifying patient Y 
is a person who is at least 18 and has been diagnosed by a physician as having a 
debilitating medical condition such as cancer, glaucoma, AIDS, or another specified 
condition or is undergoing a debilitating medical treatment.
Previous convictions relating to marijuana
The bill creates a process to review convictions for acts that have been 
decriminalized under the bill.  If the person is currently serving a sentence or on 
probation for such a conviction, the person may petition a court to dismiss the 
conviction and expunge the record.  If the person has completed a sentence or period 
of probation for such a conviction, the person may petition a court to expunge the 
record or, if applicable, redesignate it to a lower crime.  Any conviction that is 
expunged under the bill is not considered a conviction for any purpose under state 
or federal law.
Registration for THC testing labs
The bill requires DATCP to register entities as tetrahydrocannabinols (THC)-
testing laboratories.  The laboratories must test marijuana for contaminants; 
research findings on the use of medical marijuana; and provide training on safe and 
efficient cultivation, harvesting, packaging, labeling, and distribution of marijuana, 
security and inventory accountability, and research on medical marijuana.
Discrimination based on marijuana use
Under the fair employment law, no employer or other person may engage in 
any act of employment discrimination against any individual on the basis of the 
individual [s use or nonuse of lawful products off the employer [s premises during 
nonworking hours, subject to certain exceptions, one of which is if the use impairs 
the individual [s ability to undertake adequately the job-related responsibilities of 
that individual [s employment.  The bill specifically defines marijuana as a lawful 
product for purposes of the fair employment law, such that no person may engage in 
any act of employment discrimination against an individual because of the 
individual [s use of marijuana off the employer [s premises during nonworking hours, 
subject to those exceptions.
Under current law, an individual may be disqualified from receiving 
unemployment insurance benefits if they are terminated because of misconduct or 
substantial fault.  The bill specifically provides that an employee [s use of marijuana 
off the employer [s premises during nonworking hours does not constitute 
misconduct or substantial fault unless termination for that use is permitted under 
one of the exceptions under the fair employment law.
Unless federal law requires otherwise, the bill prohibits a hospital, physician, 
organ procurement organization, or other person from determining the ultimate 
recipient of an anatomical gift on the sole basis of a positive test for the use of 
marijuana by a potential recipient.
Drug screening and testing
The bill exempts THC, including marijuana, from drug testing for certain 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 148 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
public assistance programs.  Currently, a participant in a community service job or 
transitional placement under the Wisconsin Works program (W2) or a recipient of 
the FoodShare program, also known as the food stamp program, who is convicted of 
possession, use, or distribution of a controlled substance must submit to a test for 
controlled substances as a condition of continued eligibility.  DHS is currently 
required to request a waiver of federal Medicaid law to require drug screening and 
testing as a condition of eligibility for the childless adult demonstration project in 
the Medical Assistance program.  Current law also requires DHS to promulgate 
rules to develop and implement a drug screening, testing, and treatment policy for 
able-bodied adults without dependents in the FoodShare employment and training 
program.  The bill exempts THC from all of those drug-testing requirements and 
programs.  In addition, because THC is not a controlled substance under state law 
under the bill, the requirement under current law that DCF promulgate rules to 
create a controlled substance abuse screening and testing requirement for 
applicants for the work experience program for noncustodial parents under W2 and 
the Transform Milwaukee Jobs and Transitional Jobs programs does not include 
THC.
Under current law, DWD must establish a program to test claimants who 
apply for unemployment insurance (UI) benefits for the presence of controlled 
substances, as defined under federal law.  If a claimant tests positive for a 
controlled substance, the claimant may be denied UI benefits, subject to certain 
exceptions and limitations.  The bill excludes THC for purposes of this testing 
requirement.  As such, under the bill, an individual who tests positive for THC may 
not be denied UI benefits.
MILITARY AFFAIRS
Tuition grant program for national guard members 
The bill makes changes to DMA [s tuition grant program relating to the grant 
amount awarded to national guard members for higher education as well as the 
name of the grants.
Under current law, DMA awards tuition grants to eligible national guard 
members enrolled in qualifying schools, which include public and private 
institutions of higher education.  The amount of the tuition grant payment is equal 
to 100 percent of the actual tuition charged by the guard member [s school or 100 
percent of the maximum resident undergraduate tuition charged by the UW-
Madison for a comparable number of credits, whichever amount is less.
The bill specifies that, in calculating the amount of tuition charged by a 
qualifying school, the amount includes tuition and segregated fees if the school is a 
UW System institution and includes program fees and incidental fees if the school 
is a technical college.  The bill also renames grants awarded under the program as 
Xeducational grants Y rather than Xtuition grants. Y  The bill further specifies that, 
subject to exceptions, if an eligible guard member receives an educational grant, no 
other award of financial aid to the guard member may be reduced because of the 
educational grant.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 149 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Incumbent local exchange carrier grants
Under current law, DMA operates a grant program to reimburse incumbent 
local exchange carriers operating as originating service providers for costs 
associated with Next Generation 911.  Currently, no moneys may be encumbered 
from the appropriation that funds the grant program after June 30, 2027.  The bill 
removes the June 30, 2027, end date for encumbering funds under the grant 
program.
Costs eligible for disaster assistance payment grants
Under current law, DMA may make payments from state disaster assistance 
appropriation accounts to eligible local governmental units for costs that are a 
direct result of certain disasters, including eligible costs of debris removal; certain 
emergency protective measures for the protection of life, public health, and 
property; and certain damage to roads and bridges.  The bill directs that the costs 
eligible for such payments include certain categories of work designated by the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency [s public assistance program, including 
the program [s Category D, regarding water control facilities; Category E, regarding 
public buildings and contents; Category F, regarding public utilities; and Category 
G, regarding parks, recreation, and other facilities.
Under current law, DMA may also make payments from a state disaster 
assistance appropriation account to local governmental units for the damages and 
costs incurred as the result of a disaster if 1) the disaster is not eligible for other 
funding related to a presidentially declared Xmajor disaster, Y or 2) DMA determines 
the disaster does not meet a certain per capita impact indicator.  Additionally, the 
local governmental unit receiving the payment must pay for 30 percent of the 
amount of damages and costs resulting from the disaster.  The bill requires DMA to 
provide a $68,100 payment in fiscal year 2025 ]26 from the same state disaster 
assistance appropriation account to the Town of Westport, exempts the payment 
from the program [s eligibility requirement, and exempts the town from the 30 
percent payment requirement.
NATURAL RESOURCES
FISH, GAME , AND WILDLIFE
Hunting, fishing, and trapping fees
Under current law, DNR issues hunting, fishing, and trapping licenses, 
permits, and other approvals and charges a fee to issue most approvals.  The bill 
increases hunting, fishing, and trapping approval fees.  The following table includes 
a sample of these fee increases ( XNRY indicates nonresident):
Hunting approvals Current fee Increase New fee
Small game $15.25 $20.00 $35.25
NR Small game $87.25 $20.00 $107.25
Deer $21.25 $20.00 $41.252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 150 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
NR Deer $197.25 $20.00 $217.25
Elk $46.25 $20.00 $66.25
NR Elk $248.25 $20.00 $268.25
Class A bear $46.25 $40.00 $86.25
NR Class A bear $248.25 $40.00 $288.25
Archer deer $21.25 $20.00 $41.25
NR Archer deer $197.25 $20.00 $217.25
Crossbow deer $21.25 $20.00 $41.25
NR Crossbow deer $197.25 $20.00 $217.25
Wild turkey $12.25 $10.00 $22.25
NR Wild turkey $62.25 $10.00 $72.25
Fishing approvals
Annual fishing $19.25 $10.00 $29.25
NR Annual Fishing $54.25 $10.00 $64.25
One-day fishing $7.25 $10.00 $17.25
NR One-day fishing $14.25 $10.00 $24.25
Combination approvals
Sports $57.25 $20.00 $77.25
NR Sports $292.25 $40.00 $332.25
Conservation patron $160.25 $40.00 $200.25
NR Conservation patron $615.25 $40.00 $655.25
Wolf harvesting $48.25 $40.00 $88.25
NR Wolf harvesting $250.25 $40.00 $290.25
Trapping and taxidermist 
approvals
Trapping $19.25 $20.00 $39.25
NR Trapping $149.25 $20.00 $169.25
Taxidermist $50.00 $20.00 $70.00
NR Taxidermist $100.00 $20.00 $120.00
Commercial fishing and 
fish dealer approvals2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 151 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Commercial fishing outlying 
waters$899.25 $20.00 $919.25
Rough fish harvest $25.00 $10.00 $35.00
Shovelnose sturgeon permit $50.00 $10.00 $60.00
Wholesale fish dealer $100.00 $10.00 $110.00
Stamps, tags, and specialty 
approvals
Turkey $5.00 $7.75 $12.75
Pheasant $9.75 $6.00 $15.75
Waterfowl $11.75 $2.00 $13.75
Inland trout $9.75 $6.00 $15.75
Great Lakes salmon/trout $9.75 $7.00 $16.75
Wild rice and ginseng 
approvals
Wild rice harvest $7.50 $10.00 $17.50
Wild ginseng harvest $15.00 $10.00 $25.00
NR Wild ginseng harvest $30.00 $10.00 $40.00
Deer carcass disposal sites
The bill requires DNR to provide financial assistance to local governments, 
individuals, businesses, and nonprofit conservation organizations to purchase large 
metal containers for the disposal of deer carcasses.
Fish, wildlife, and parks program operations
The bill creates an appropriation, from moneys in the conservation fund that 
DNR receives from forestry activities, for the operation of fish, wildlife, and parks 
programs.
Endangered resources funding match
Under current law, DNR administers the endangered resources program, 
which includes improving habitats for endangered or threatened species, 
conducting the natural heritage inventory, conducting wildlife research and 
surveys, providing wildlife management services, and providing for wildlife damage 
control.  Current law appropriates from the general fund to DNR an amount equal 
to the amount of gifts, grants, and bequests received for the program and any 
additional payments designated for the program by an individual filing an income 
tax return, not to exceed $500,000 in a fiscal year.  The bill increases the limit to 
$950,000.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 152 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
FORESTRY
Managed forest land fees
Under current law, DNR administers the managed forest land (MFL) 
program, under which the owner of a parcel of land designated as MFL makes an 
annual acreage share payment in lieu of property taxes. In exchange, the owner 
must comply with certain forestry practices and, subject to exceptions, must open 
the land to the public for recreational activities.  Certain actions relating to a parcel 
designated as MFL must be recorded by the appropriate register of deeds and DNR 
must pay any required fee for the recording. 
Under current law, MFL may be transferred from one owner to another with 
payment of a $100 fee, which is deposited in the conservation fund.  Of that amount, 
$20 is credited to a DNR appropriation for the payment of register of deed fees.  
Land may also be withdrawn from the MFL program with payment of a $300 fee. 
Under the bill, $100 transfer fees and $300 withdrawal fees are deposited in 
the conservation fund and credited to the DNR appropriation for the payment of 
fees to the registers of deeds.
Wildfire suppression reimbursement
Under current law, DNR administers the fire suppression aids program, 
which provides grants to counties, cities, villages, towns, and fire suppression 
organizations to assist with the cost of training and supplies for fire suppression.  
The bill appropriates to DNR, from the conservation fund, a sum sufficient to 
reimburse local fire departments under the program.
Forestry-industry-wide strategic plan
The bill requires DNR to develop a forestry-industry-wide strategic plan and 
road map and to submit a final report on this plan to the Council on Forestry no 
later than September 16, 2026.
Transfer from forestry account to transportation fund
The bill transfers $25,000,000 from the forestry account of the conservation 
fund to the transportation fund.
Transfer to forestry account
The bill modifies the amount of GPR to be transferred to the conservation 
fund for forestry purposes.  Under current law, an amount equal to 0.1697 mills for 
each dollar of equalized property value in the state is transferred.  The bill modifies 
the amount of the transfer to 0.1406 mills for each dollar of equalized property 
value in the state.  Current law requires funds transferred in this manner to be 
used for acquiring, preserving, and developing the forests of the state and for 
various other purposes related to forestry.
NAVIGABLE  WATERS
Great Lakes and Mississippi River erosion control revolving loan programs
The bill requires DNR to administer revolving loan programs to assist 
municipalities and owners of homes located on the shore of Lake Michigan, Lake 
Superior, or the Mississippi River where the structural integrity of municipal 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 153 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
buildings or homes is threatened by erosion of the shoreline.  Under the bill, moneys 
for the programs are provided from the environmental fund, the segregated fund 
used to finance environmental management programs administered by DNR and 
pollution abatement programs administered by DNR and DATCP.  The bill requires 
DNR to promulgate rules to administer the programs, including eligibility 
requirements and income limitations, and authorizes DNR to promulgate 
emergency rules for the period before permanent rules take effect.
Bonding for dam safety projects
Under current law, the state may contract up to $39,500,000 in public debt to 
provide financial assistance to counties, cities, villages, towns, and public inland 
lake protection and rehabilitation districts for dam safety projects.  The bill 
increases the bonding authority for these projects by $15,000,000.
RECREATION
Outdoor skills training program
The bill changes which appropriation from the conservation fund pays for an 
outdoor skills training program.  Under current law, the UW System must enter 
into an agreement with an established national organization that provides training 
to persons who are interested in learning about the outdoor skills needed by women 
to hunt, fish, camp, canoe, and undertake other outdoor recreational activities in 
order to provide that type of training to interested persons.
Free admission to state parks for fourth graders
Under current law, no person may operate a vehicle in any state park or in 
certain other recreational areas on state land unless the vehicle displays a vehicle 
admission receipt.  The bill requires DNR to waive the fee for an annual vehicle 
admission receipt issued to the parent or guardian of a pupil receiving a fourth 
grade level of instruction.  A parent or guardian of a qualifying pupil may apply to 
DNR for the waiver by submitting required certifications.  A parent or guardian 
may receive the waiver only once in his or her lifetime and DNR may issue a waiver 
only once for a household.
State park admission and camping fee waivers for tribal members
The bill requires DNR to waive the fee for an annual vehicle admission receipt 
issued to a member of a federally recognized American Indian tribe or band located 
in this state.  Under current law generally, no person may operate a vehicle in any 
state park or in certain other recreational areas on state land unless the vehicle 
displays a vehicle admission receipt.
The bill also requires DNR to waive the camping fee for a member of a 
federally recognized American Indian tribe or band located in this state.  Under 
current law generally, no person may camp in a state campground unless the 
applicable camping fee is paid.
Interpretive programs in state forests
Current law provides that all moneys received from fees charged for admission 
to educational and interpretive programs in state parks are appropriated for the 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 154 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
costs associated with those programs.  The bill adds moneys received from fees 
charged for admission to those programs in state forests to this appropriation, to be 
used for the costs associated with those programs.
Kenosha Dunes restoration funding
The bill appropriates moneys from the general fund to DNR for erosion control 
projects in the Kenosha Dunes unit of the Chiwaukee Prairie state natural area in 
Kenosha County.
Credit card fee recovery
The bill provides that DNR may collect a credit card handling fee to cover 
credit card transaction costs incurred in collecting fees for vehicle admission receipt 
and camping fees that are paid for by using a credit card.  The bill requires DNR to 
promulgate rules establishing the amount of the fee, which may not be more than 
the amount necessary to cover the costs of using a credit card for fee payment.
GENERAL  NATURAL  RESOURCES
Warren Knowles-Gaylord Nelson Stewardship 2000 Program
The bill reauthorizes the Warren Knowles-Gaylord Nelson Stewardship 2000 
Program (stewardship program) until 2036 and makes various changes to the 
program.
Current law authorizes the state to incur public debt for certain conservation 
activities under the stewardship program, which is administered by DNR.  The 
state may incur this debt to acquire land for the state for conservation purposes and 
for property development activities and may award grants or state aid to certain 
local governmental units and nonprofit conservation organizations (NCOs) to 
acquire land for these purposes.  Current law establishes the amounts that DNR 
may obligate in each fiscal year through fiscal year 2025 ]26 for expenditure under 
each of five subprograms of the stewardship program.
The bill increases the total amount that may be obligated for the stewardship 
program from $33,250,000 each fiscal year to $83,000,000 each fiscal year 
beginning with fiscal year 2026 ]27 and ending with fiscal year 2035 ]36.
Moneys obligated under the stewardship program are appropriated from the 
capital improvement fund (CIF) and stewardship bond proceeds are deposited into 
CIF.  Current law provides that, in obligating moneys under the subprogram for 
land acquisition, DNR must set aside certain amounts to be obligated only for DNR 
to acquire land and to provide grants to counties for land acquisition (county forest 
grants).  Specifically, the set-aside for DNR land acquisition each fiscal year is 
$1,000,000 plus the amount transferred to CIF under an appropriation that 
transfers from moneys received for forestry activities (the forestry account) to CIF 
$5,000,000 in each fiscal year.  The set-aside for county forest grants is equal to the 
amount transferred to CIF under an appropriation that transfers from the forestry 
account to CIF $3,000,000 in each fiscal year.  The bill ends these annual transfers 
from the forestry account to CIF beginning in fiscal year 2026 ]27 and replaces the 
corresponding set-aside requirements under the land acquisition subprogram with 
appropriations that directly fund those purposes from the conservation fund, not 
the stewardship program.  Specifically, the bill appropriates $6,000,000 each fiscal 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 155 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
year from the conservation fund for DNR land acquisitions and $3,000,000 each 
fiscal year from the forestry account for county forest grants.  The $6,000,000 that 
the bill appropriates directly each fiscal year for DNR land acquisitions is 
$1,000,000 more than the amount currently transferred to CIF and set aside for 
this purpose, and in addition the bill continues to provide a $1,000,000 set-aside for 
this purpose under the land acquisition subprogram of the stewardship program.  
The bill provides that any amount in CIF remaining from the amounts transferred 
from the forestry account in fiscal years 2022 ]23, 2023 ]24, 2024 ]25, and 2025 ]26 is 
transferred back to the forestry account in fiscal year 2026 ]27.
The bill eliminates a current law provision that states that, of the amount set 
aside under the land acquisition subprogram for DNR to acquire land, DNR may 
not use more than one-third to acquire land in fee simple.  In addition, the bill 
eliminates a provision requiring DNR to use at least two appraisals to determine 
the current fair market value of land that is the subject of a stewardship funding for 
an NCO or governmental unit if DNR estimates the fair market value of the land to 
exceed $350,000.  The bill increases from $7,000,000 to $14,000,000 the amount 
under the land acquisition subprogram that must be set aside for grants to 
nonprofit conservation organizations each fiscal year.
The bill renames the property development and local assistance subprogram 
to be the Xstate property development and local parks and recreation subprogram, Y 
and increases from $14,250,000 to $51,500,000 the amount in each fiscal year that 
may be obligated under the subprogram.  Of that amount, the bill increases from 
$5,000,000 to $15,450,000 the amount that DNR must obligate for property 
development each fiscal year and increases from $9,250,000 to $36,050,000 the 
amount that DNR must obligate for local assistance each fiscal year.
The bill increases from $500,000 to $2,500,000 the amount that DNR is 
required to set aside each fiscal year, from the amounts obligated for property 
development, for grants to friends groups and NCOs for property development 
activities on DNR properties.  The bill also increases from $20,000 to $50,000 the 
maximum amount that DNR may encumber per DNR property for these grants in 
each fiscal year.
The bill creates a motorized recreation grant program funded from 
stewardship moneys, under which DNR may award a grant to a county, city, village, 
town, or recreational vehicle club either to acquire land for the purpose of 
establishing an all-terrain vehicle trail, off-highway motorcycle trail, or snowmobile 
trail (treated as obligated from the land acquisition subprogram) or to construct a 
trail crossing for an all-terrain vehicle trail, off-highway motorcycle trail, or 
snowmobile trail as part of an interchange project (treated as obligated from the 
state property development and local parks and recreation subprogram).  The bill 
requires DNR to allocate $5,000,000 in each fiscal year for these grants.
The bill renames the recreational boating aids subprogram to be the Xlocal 
recreation boat facilities subprogram Y and increases from $3,000,000 to $9,000,000 
the amount in each fiscal year that DNR may obligate under the subprogram.  The 
bill eliminates DNR [s authority under current law to use funds, whether 
stewardship or other funds, for recreational boating project feasibility studies.  The 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 156 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
bill changes one of the factors that DNR must consider in establishing priorities for 
projects from Xprojects underway Y to Xprojects in a state of readiness. Y
The bill creates two new programs and funds them with appropriations from 
the general fund.  Specifically, the bill creates a grant program for nonprofit 
conservation organizations to support wildlife and habitat management, and a 
tribal co-management program under which DNR must coordinate with the 
federally recognized American Indian tribes or bands domiciled in this state in the 
management of education infrastructure, land management activities, and other 
activities on DNR land.
Nonprofit conservation organization grants
Under current law, DNR is authorized to provide grants to nonprofit 
conservation organizations for a variety of conservation purposes, including 
acquisition of property, encouraging land management activities that enhance the 
state[s natural resources, and providing technical assistance.
The bill creates an appropriation to DNR from the general fund for the 
purpose of providing grants to nonprofit conservation organizations and requires 
DNR to award grants in the 2025 ]26 fiscal year to the following organizations: 1) 
Gathering Waters, 2) the Natural Resources Foundation of Wisconsin, 3) River 
Alliance of Wisconsin, and 4) Wisconsin Lakes.
Building demolition
The bill creates a continuing appropriation from the general fund to DNR for 
the demolition of buildings on DNR-owned property.
Wild rice stewardship
The bill appropriates to DNR from the general fund moneys for wild rice 
stewardship efforts within the waters of areas where American Indian tribes or 
bands hold treaty-based rights to harvest wild rice.  The bill provides that not less 
than $50,000 of the amounts appropriated for each fiscal year must be allocated for 
public education and outreach pertaining to wild rice harvesting.
Off-highway motorcycle sales tax collection
Under current law, 1 percent of sales and use taxes on all-terrain vehicles, 
utility terrain vehicles, boats, and snowmobiles are deposited in the segregated 
conservation fund.  The bill provides that 1 percent of sales and use taxes on off-
highway motorcycles are deposited in the conservation fund and credited to the 
DNR appropriation for off-highway motorcycle administration.
Funding from Indian gaming receipts
Current law and Indian gaming compacts require DOA to transfer portions of 
Indian gaming receipts to certain DNR appropriations annually. At the end of each 
fiscal year, unobligated funds from programs that receive tribal gaming revenues 
revert to the appropriation account to which Indian gaming receipts are credited.
The bill eliminates the requirement to transfer these amounts to an 
appropriation that funds snowmobile law enforcement operations and safety 
training and fatality reporting and eliminates that appropriation.  The bill also 
creates a new appropriation to DNR for providing grants to federally recognized 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 157 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
American Indian tribes or bands for maintenance and repair of fish hatcheries 
operated by the tribe or band.
Under current law, DNR makes a payment to the Lac du Flambeau band of 
Lake Superior Chippewa based on the amount of fees collected by DNR for certain 
hunting and fishing approvals and the number of certain approvals issued within 
the the Lac du Flambeau reservation. DNR makes this payment from an 
appropriation that receives tribal gaming revenues.  The bill provides that this 
appropriation is subject to the same reversion requirement as other gaming receipts 
transfers to DNR.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
Funding for broadband expansion grant program
The bill appropriates GPR funding for the broadband expansion grant 
program administered by PSC.
Focus on Energy funding
The bill makes changes to the funding of statewide energy efficiency and 
renewable resources programs, known as Focus on Energy, that current law 
requires investor-owned electric and natural gas utilities to fund.  Under the bill, 
PSC must require those utilities to spend 2.4 percent of their annual operating 
revenues derived from retail sales to fund Focus on Energy and related programs.  
Under current law, the amount those utilities must spend is 1.2 percent of their 
annual operating revenues from retail sales.
Focus on Energy residential customer energy storage
The bill includes residential energy storage system programs and programs 
for reducing energy demand in the Focus on Energy program.
Energy innovation grant program
The bill appropriates GPR for the energy innovation grant program (EIGP), 
which is administered by PSC [s Office of Energy Innovation and awards grants for 
projects related to energy efficiency and innovation.  Currently, the EIGP is funded 
with federal money from the 2009 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
Residential and commercial energy improvements
The bill allows PSC to authorize a public utility to finance energy 
improvements at a specific dwelling for a residential or commercial customer.  
Under the bill, a public utility may recover the costs of such an energy improvement 
through a surcharge periodically placed on the customer [s account.  The bill 
requires PSC to promulgate rules establishing requirements for this financing, 
which must include that the surcharge is assigned to a location, not to an individual 
customer; that energy improvements are eligible for financing only if they are 
estimated to save an amount that exceeds the surcharge; and that the financing 
offered may not increase a customer [s risk or debt.
Deadline for a certificate of public convenience and necessity
Current law generally prohibits a person from commencing construction of 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 158 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
certain large electric generating facilities or high-voltage transmission lines 
without obtaining a certificate of public convenience and necessity (CPCN) from 
PSC.  After a person files a complete application for a CPCN, PSC must take final 
action on the application within 180 days, or else PSC is considered to have issued 
a CPCN to the applicant.  However, current law also allows the PSC chairperson to 
extend that deadline for no more than an additional 180 days.  If PSC fails to take 
final action within the extended deadline, PSC is considered to have issued the 
CPCN.  The bill authorizes the PSC chairperson to make two such 180-day 
extensions instead of just one.
Brownfield renewable energy generation grants
Under the bill, PSC makes grants to developers and electric providers for 
redeveloping brownfields for renewable energy generation.  The grants may be used 
only for remediating brownfields, developing renewable energy infrastructure on 
brownfields, and technical support.
Nuclear energy feasibility study
The bill requires PSC to conduct a nuclear power plant feasibility study and 
creates an appropriation to fund the study.
Electric utility integrated resource plans
The bill requires investor-owned and municipal electric utilities to file 
integrated resource plans with PSC.  An integrated resource plan must describe the 
resources an electric utility could use to meet the service needs of its customers over 
the next 5-year, 10-year, and 15-year periods and must contain certain other 
information, including forecasts of electricity demand under various reasonable 
scenarios and plans and projected costs for meeting that electricity demand.  PSC 
must establish requirements for the contents and filing of the plans, and PSC must 
approve, reject, or modify an electric utility [s integrated resource plan consistent 
with the public interest.  The bill also requires PSC to review the integrated 
resource plans filed by electric utilities to inform its biennial strategic energy 
assessment.  Under current law, the strategic energy assessment evaluates the 
adequacy and reliability of the state [s current and future energy supply.
Securitization of retiring power plants
Under current law, an energy utility is allowed to apply to PSC for an order 
allowing the utility to finance the costs of the following activities by issuing bonds: 
1) the construction, installation, or otherwise putting into place of environmental 
control equipment in connection with a plant that, before March 30, 2004, has been 
used to provide service to customers and 2) the retiring of any existing plant, 
facility, or other property to reduce, control, or eliminate environmental pollution in 
accordance with federal or state law.  Current law defines these activities as 
Xenvironmental control activities. Y  If approved by PSC, the bonds, which are 
referred to as Xenvironmental trust bonds, Y are secured by revenues arising from 
charges paid by an energy utility [s customers for the utility to recover the cost of the 
activities, as well as the cost of financing the bonds.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 159 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
The bill adds the retiring of any existing electric generating facility fueled by 
nonrenewable combustible energy resources as an environmental control activity, 
the costs of which may be financed by an environmental trust bond.
Remove size limit on grants for lead service line replacement
The bill allows water public utilities to make grants that cover the full cost of 
replacing lead-containing customer-side water service lines.  Under current law, 
water public utilities may, after applying to and receiving approval from PSC, make 
grants and loans to property owners to assist replacement of customer-side water 
service lines containing lead.  Current law prohibits PSC from approving a water 
public utility [s application to provide these grants unless grants are limited to no 
more than one-half of the total cost of replacing lead-containing customer-side 
water service lines.
REAL ESTATE
Real estate condition reports
Under current law, with certain exceptions, an owner selling residential real 
property or vacant land must give a prospective buyer a form, known as a real 
estate condition report for residential real property and known as the vacant land 
disclosure report for vacant land (real estate condition report), on which the owner 
discloses certain conditions of, and other information about, the real property of 
which the owner is aware.  Currently, as part of the real estate condition report, a 
seller must disclose whether the applicable real estate is located in a floodplain.  
The bill requires the real estate condition report to include a link to a DNR website 
for more information about flood insurance.  Current law also requires a seller of 
residential real estate to indicate whether any insurance claims related to damage 
to the premises have been filed in the past five years.  The bill adds the same 
provision to the vacant land disclosure report.  Additionally, the bill adds to both 
real estate condition reports language that specifies that the disclosure related to 
insurance claims includes insurance claims for damage caused by a flood.  Lastly, 
the bill adds to the real estate condition report a disclosure related to claims for 
financial support, other than insurance claims, for damage to the property caused 
by a flood.  Under current law and the bill, the real estate condition report includes 
a provision under which the prospective buyer acknowledges that that technical 
knowledge such as that acquired by professional inspectors may be required to 
detect certain defects, including Xfloodplain status. Y
Landlord notification requirements
The bill provides that, if a landlord has actual knowledge that a rental 
property is located in a floodplain, the landlord must disclose that fact to a 
prospective tenant before entering into a lease or accepting any earnest money or 
security deposit from the prospective tenant. 
RETIREMENT AND GROUP INSURANCE
Benefits for domestic partners
The bill provides that domestic partners of public employees be treated 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 160 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
similarly to spouses of public employees for purposes of benefits received through 
ETF.  These benefits include group health insurance coverage, beneficiary rights 
under the Wisconsin Retirement System (WRS), automatic beneficiary rights 
under the deferred compensation plan, and duty disability survivorship benefits.
WRS annuitants returning to work
Under current law, if a WRS annuitant, or a disability annuitant who has 
attained his or her normal retirement date, is appointed to a position with a WRS-
participating employer or provides employee services to a WRS-participating 
employer in which he or she is expected to work at least two-thirds of what is 
considered full-time employment by ETF, the annuity must be suspended and no 
annuity payment is payable until after the participant again terminates covered 
employment.
The bill removes the requirement that an annuitant who returns to work for a 
participating employer have his or her annuity suspended and become a 
participating employee and instead allows an annuitant who returns to work to 
either 1) elect to suspend his or her annuity and become a participating employee or 
2) elect to continue receiving his or her annuity and not become a participating 
employee.
Under current law, a WRS participant who has applied to receive a retirement 
annuity must wait at least 75 days between terminating covered employment with 
a WRS employer and returning to covered employment again as a participating 
employee.  The bill reduces that period to 30 days.
Waiting period for state employees
Under current law, most state employees, other than limited-term employees, 
become covered under the state group health insurance plan on the first day of the 
first month after becoming employed with the state by filing an election within 30 
days of being hired.  However, most state employees are ineligible for an employer 
contribution toward the premiums for the first three months of employment.  The 
bill changes the date to the first day of the second month for most state employees, 
other than limited-term employees, hired after the effective date of the bill.
Internal auditor
The bill creates the Office of Internal Audit attached to ETF.  Under the bill, 
the office plans and conducts audits of activities and programs administered by 
ETF, among other responsibilities, while following policies, principles, and 
directives established by the Employee Trust Funds Board (ETFB).
The bill requires ETFB to appoint an internal auditor and internal audit staff 
within the classified service who report directly to ETFB.  Currently, the internal 
auditor for ETF reports to the secretary of ETF, and internal audit staff report to 
the internal auditor.
Automated operating system progress report
The bill requires the secretary of ETF to submit with ETF [s biennial budget 
request a report that includes details of ETF [s expenditures to implement an 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 161 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
automated operating system and a progress report and timelines of ETF [s 
anticipated progress on modernizing its business processes and integrating its 
information technology systems.
SAFETY AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
ADVANCED  PRACTICE  REGISTERED  NURSES
Licensure of advanced practice registered nurses
Under current law, a person who wishes to practice professional nursing must 
be licensed by the Board of Nursing as a registered nurse (RN).  The bill creates an 
additional system of licensure for advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs), to 
be administered by the board.  Under the bill, in order to apply for an APRN license, 
a person must 1) hold, or concurrently apply for, an RN license; 2) have completed 
an accredited graduate-level or postgraduate-level education program preparing 
the person to practice as an APRN in one of four recognized roles and hold a current 
national certification approved by the board; 3) possess malpractice liability 
insurance as provided in the bill; 4) pay a fee determined by DSPS; and 5) satisfy 
certain other criteria specified in the bill.  The bill also allows a person who has not 
completed an accredited education program described above to receive an APRN 
license if the person 1) on January 1, 2026, is both licensed as an RN in Wisconsin 
and practicing in one of the four recognized roles and 2) satisfies additional practice 
or education criteria established by the board.  The bill also, however, automatically 
grants licenses to certain RNs, as further described below.  The four recognized 
roles, as defined in the bill, are 1) certified nurse-midwife; 2) certified registered 
nurse anesthetist; 3) clinical nurse specialist; and 4) nurse practitioner.  The bill 
requires the board, upon granting a person an APRN license, to also grant the 
person one or more specialty designations corresponding to the recognized role or 
roles for which the person qualifies.
Under the bill, all APRNs, except APRNs with a certified nurse-midwife 
specialty designation, must practice in collaboration with a physician or dentist.  
However, under the bill, an APRN may practice without being supervised by a 
physician or dentist if the board verifies that the APRN has completed 3,840 hours 
of professional nursing in a clinical setting and has completed 3,840 clinical hours of 
advanced practice registered nursing practice in his or her recognized role while 
working with a physician or dentist during those 3,840 hours of practice.  APRNs 
may count additional hours practiced as an APRN in collaboration with a physician 
or dentist towards the 3,840 required hours of professional nursing.  APRNs with a 
certified nurse-midwife specialty designation are instead required, if they offer to 
deliver babies outside of a hospital setting, to file and keep current with the board a 
proactive plan for involving a hospital or a physician who has admitting privileges 
at a hospital in the treatment of patients with higher acuity or emergency care 
needs, as further described below.  Regardless of whether an APRN has qualified to 
practice independently, the bill provides that an APRN may provide chronic pain 
management services only while working in a collaborative relationship with a 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 162 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
physician who, through education, training, and experience, specializes in pain 
management.  Alternatively, if an APRN has qualified to practice independently 
and currently has privileges in a hospital, the APRN may provide chronic pain 
management services without a collaborative relationship with a physician.
The holder of an APRN license may append the title XA.P.R.N. Y to his or her 
name, as well as a title corresponding to whichever specialty designations that the 
person possesses.  The bill prohibits any person from using the title XA.P.R.N., Y and 
from otherwise indicating that he or she is an APRN, unless the person is licensed 
by the board as an APRN.  The bill also prohibits the use of titles and abbreviations 
corresponding to a recognized role unless the person has a specialty designation for 
that role.
The bill allows an APRN to delegate a task or order to another clinically 
trained health care worker if the task or order is within the scope of the APRN [s 
practice, the APRN is competent to perform the task or issue the order, and the 
APRN has reasonable evidence that the health care worker is minimally competent 
to perform the task or issue the order under the circumstances.  The bill requires an 
APRN to adhere to professional standards when managing situations that are 
beyond the APRN [s expertise.
Under the bill, when an APRN renews his or her APRN license, the board 
must grant the person the renewal of both the person [s RN license and the person [s 
APRN license.  The bill requires all APRNs to complete continuing education 
requirements each biennium in clinical pharmacology or therapeutics relevant to 
the APRN [s area of practice and to satisfy certain other requirements when 
renewing a license.
Practice of nurse-midwifery
The bill eliminates licensure and practice requirements specific to nurse-
midwives and the practice of nurse-midwifery, including specific requirements to 
practice with an obstetrician.  Under the bill, Xcertified nurse-midwife Y is one of the 
four recognized roles for APRNs, and a person who is licensed as a nurse-midwife 
under current law is automatically granted an APRN license with a certified nurse-
midwife specialty designation.  The bill otherwise allows nurse-midwives to be 
licensed as APRNs if they satisfy the licensure requirements, except that the bill 
also requires that a person applying for a certified nurse-midwife specialty 
designation be certified by the American Midwifery Certification Board.  The bill 
also requires an APRN with a specialty designation as a certified nurse-midwife to 
file with the Board of Nursing, and obtain the board [s approval of, a plan for 
ensuring appropriate care or care transitions in treating certain patients if the 
APRN offers to deliver babies outside of a hospital setting.
Prescribing authority
Under current law, a person licensed as an RN may apply to the Board of 
Nursing for a certificate to issue prescription orders if the person meets certain 
requirements established by the board.  An RN holding a certificate is subject to 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 163 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
various practice requirements and limitations established by the board and must 
possess malpractice liability insurance in an amount determined by the board.
The bill eliminates certificates to issue prescription orders and generally 
authorizes APRNs to issue prescription orders.  A person who is certified to issue 
prescription orders under current law is automatically granted an APRN license 
with his or her appropriate specialty designation.  RNs who are practicing in a 
recognized role on January 1, 2026, but who do not hold a certificate to issue 
prescription orders on that date and who are granted an APRN license under the 
bill may not issue prescription orders.  As under current law, an APRN issuing 
prescription orders is subject to various practice requirements and limitations 
established by the board.
The bill eliminates a provision concerning the ability of advanced practice 
nurses who are certified to issue prescription orders and who are required to work 
in collaboration with or under the supervision of a physician to obtain and practice 
under a federal waiver to dispense narcotic drugs to individuals for addiction 
treatment.
Malpractice liability insurance
The bill requires all APRNs to maintain malpractice liability insurance in 
coverage amounts specified under current law for physicians and nurse anesthetists 
except for an APRN whose employer has in effect malpractice liability insurance 
that provides at least the same amount of coverage for the APRN.  Additionally, the 
bill requires APRNs who have qualified to practice independently and who practice 
outside a collaborative or employment relationship to participate in the injured 
patients and families compensation fund.  The injured patients and families 
compensation fund provides excess medical malpractice coverage for health care 
providers who participate in the fund and meet all other participation 
requirements, which includes maintaining malpractice liability insurance in 
coverage amounts specified under current law.
Other changes
The bill directs DHS to require a hospital that provides emergency services to 
have sufficient qualified personnel available at all times to manage the number and 
severity of emergency department cases anticipated by the location.  At a minimum, 
the bill directs DHS to require a hospital that provides emergency services to have 
on-site at least one physician who, through education, training, and experience, 
specializes in emergency medicine.
The bill makes numerous other changes throughout the statutes relating to 
APRNs, including various terminology changes.
BUILDINGS  AND SAFETY
Private on-site wastewater treatment system grants
The bill extends the grant program aiding certain persons and businesses 
served by failing private on-site wastewater treatment systems (POWTS), which 
are commonly known as septic tanks.  Under current law, the program is repealed 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 164 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
effective June 2025.  In addition, under the bill, a failing POWTS installed at least 
33 years before the submission of a grant application is eligible to receive a grant.  
Current law authorizes grants only for failing POWTS that were installed before 
July 1, 1978.
Offsetting costs of trade exams administered by third parties
The bill creates an appropriation for DSPS to reduce the cost of examinations 
required to obtain an occupational license in the building trades that are 
administered by a third party.
Combining operations and administrative services appropriations
The bill combines two program revenue appropriations for operations and 
administrative services related to DSPS [s regulation of industry, buildings, and 
safety into a single appropriation.
PROFESSIONAL  LICENSURE
DSPS renewal dates; continuing education; nursing workforce survey
Under current law, a two-year renewal period applies to many health and 
business credentials administered by DSPS or a credentialing board.  The renewal 
date for each two-year period is specified by statute.  In addition, the laws governing 
some professions specify continuing education requirements, either by statute or by 
rule, as part of credentialing renewal.
The bill eliminates statutory renewal dates for these credentials and instead 
allows DSPS, in consultation with the credentialing boards, to establish renewal 
dates.  The bill makes various changes to continuing education requirements for 
various professions to account for the flexible renewal periods allowed in the bill, 
including allowing DSPS and the credentialing boards to adjust continuing 
education requirements and to establish interim continuing education or other 
reporting requirements as needed to align with changes to renewal cycles.
Nursing refresher course tuition reimbursement program
The bill requires DSPS to establish and implement a program to reimburse 
individuals for the cost of completing a nursing refresher course offered at a 
technical college.  The reimbursement is available to individuals who are licensed 
as a registered nurse or licensed practical nurse, are under 60 years of age, and 
have not actively practiced nursing in the prior five-year period.  The bill requires 
DSPS to allocate at least $150,000 in each fiscal year for reimbursements under the 
program.
Professional licenses for certain noncitizens
Currently, federal law prohibits all but certain noncitizens from receiving any 
Xstate or local public benefit, Y which is defined to include any Xprofessional license, 
or commercial license provided by an agency of a state or local government. Y  
However, federal law allows states to explicitly allow eligibility for certain public 
benefits.  The bill allows certain individuals who are not U.S. citizens to receive any 
professional license issued in this state if they meet all other requirements or 
qualifications for the professional license.  For purposes of the bill, Xprofessional 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 165 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
licenseY means a license, registration, certification, or other approval to perform 
specific work tasks, whether issued by the state or a local governmental entity.
Statewide clinician wellness program
The bill allows DSPS to provide a statewide clinician wellness program to 
provide support to health care workers in this state in maintaining their physical 
and mental health and ensuring long-term vitality and effectiveness for their 
patients and their profession.
Reviews of criminal records
The bill requires DSPS, when conducting an investigation of the arrest or 
conviction record of a credential applicant, to obtain and review information to 
determine the circumstances of each case or offense, except that the bill allows 
DSPS, in its discretion, to complete its investigation of an arrest or conviction 
record without reviewing the circumstances of certain types of offenses specified in 
the bill.  These offenses include certain first offense operating while intoxicated and 
related violations; certain underage alcohol violations; and minor, nonviolent 
ordinance violations, as determined by DSPS.
Rules; license portability
The bill provides that DSPS or a credentialing board in DSPS may promulgate 
rules to achieve enhanced license portability to help facilitate streamlined 
pathways to licensure for internationally trained professionals and increased 
reciprocity.
Combining general operations appropriations
The bill combines five program revenue appropriations related to the 
licensing, rule-making, and regulatory functions of DSPS into a single 
appropriation.
SHARED REVENUE
County and municipal property tax freeze incentive payments
The bill provides property tax freeze incentive payments to counties and 
municipalities that do not increase their property tax levies.  Under the bill, if a 
county[s or municipality [s property tax levy is less than or equal to its property tax 
levy in the immediately preceding year, it will receive a payment equal to the sum of 
the following amounts: 1) its property tax levy multiplied by 0.03, and 2) if it 
received a property tax freeze incentive payment in the immediately preceding year, 
the amount of that payment multiplied by 1.03.  For purposes of eligibility for the 
payments, expenditures made related to annexation and service consolidation and 
unreimbursed emergency expenditures do not count as part of a county [s or 
municipality [s property tax levy.
Payments to counties and municipalities for nontaxable tribal land
The bill provides payments to counties and municipalities to compensate for 
not being able to impose local general property taxes on real property exempt from 
taxation under the 1854 Treaty of La Pointe.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 166 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Automatically increasing the municipal services payments account
The bill increases the amounts transferred to the local government fund for 
payments for municipal services.  Under the bill, each fiscal year those amounts 
increase by the percentage change in the estimated amount of revenues received 
from the state sales and use tax for the previous fiscal year from the immediately 
preceding fiscal year.  Current law provides state aid payments to municipalities 
that provide municipal services to state facilities.
Energy and liquefied natural gas storage facilities
The bill provides utility aid payments to counties and municipalities where 
energy storage facilities are located.  Under the bill, DOA distributes to each city 
and village in which an energy storage facility is located two-thirds of the amount 
calculated by multiplying the facility [s megawatt capacity by $2,000, and the county 
in which such a facility is located is distributed one-third of the amount calculated 
by multiplying the facility [s megawatt capacity by $2,000.  DOA distributes to each 
town in which an energy storage facility is located one-third of the amount 
calculated by multiplying the facility [s megawatt capacity by $2,000, and the county 
in which such a facility is located is distributed two-thirds of the amount calculated 
by multiplying the facility [s megawatt capacity by $2,000.
The bill defines an Xenergy storage facility Y as property that receives electrical 
energy, stores the energy in a different form, and converts that other form of energy 
back to electrical energy for sale or to use to provide reliability or economic benefits 
to the electrical grid.  The bill also defines an Xenergy storage facility Y as property 
that is owned by a light, heat, and power company, electric cooperative, or municipal 
electric company and includes hydroelectric pumped storage, compressed air energy 
storage, regenerative fuel cells, batteries, and similar technologies.
The bill also provides utility aid payments to counties and municipalities 
where liquefied natural gas storage facilities (LNG storage facilities) are located.  
The payment received by a city or village where an LNG storage facility is located is 
determined by multiplying the net book value of the LNG storage facility by six 
mills and by three mills in the case of a town.  The payment received by a county 
where an LNG storage facility is located is determined by multiplying the net book 
value of the LNG storage facility by three mills if the facility is located in a city or 
village and by six mills if the facility is located in a town.
Aid to taxing jurisdictions for pipelines assessed by the state
Beginning in 2027, the bill requires the state to pay each taxing jurisdiction an 
amount equal to the property taxes levied on the pipeline property of a pipeline 
company for the property tax assessments as of January 1, 2024.  Generally under 
current law, the property of a pipeline company is subject to the public utilities tax, 
and property that is subject to the public utilities tax is exempt from local property 
taxation.
Aid to Green Bay for NFL draft public safety costs
The bill provides the city of Green Bay with an additional $1,000,000 in 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 167 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
county and municipal aid for reimbursement of public safety costs associated with 
the NFL draft in April 2025.
Expenditure restraint incentive program
Under current law, generally, a municipality is eligible to receive an 
expenditure restraint incentive payment if its property tax levy is greater than five 
mills and if the annual increase in its municipal budget is less than the sum of 
factors based on inflation and the increased value of property in the municipality as 
a result of new construction.  Under the bill, the inflation factor used to determine 
eligibility is equal to the percentage change in the consumer price index or 3 
percent, whichever is greater.  The bill also excludes the following from being 
considered in determining eligibility for an expenditure restraint incentive program 
payment: 1) the amount by which a municipality [s base and supplemental county 
and municipal aid received in the applicable year exceeds the amount of base and 
supplemental county and municipal aid received by the municipality in 2024; 2) all 
grants received from the federal government; 3) revenues from a municipal vehicle 
registration fee that is approved by a majority of electors voting at a referendum; 4) 
the amount by which a municipality [s payments received for municipal services 
provided to facilities owned by the state exceeds the amount of those payments 
received in 2024; and 5) the $1,000,000 additional county and municipal aid 
payment to the city of Green Bay provided by the bill to reimburse public safety 
costs associated with the NFL draft in April 2025.
Local government fund transfer to offset certain sales tax exemptions
The bill increases the amount of the transfer from the general fund to the local 
government fund in fiscal year 2026-27 to compensate for the loss of sales and use 
tax revenues from the bill [s sales tax exemptions for over-the-counter prescription 
drugs and electricity and natural gas sold from May to October.  Under current law, 
the annual increase in the amount of the county and municipal aid payments and 
the supplemental county and municipal aid payments is determined by the 
percentage change in the revenues received from the sales and use tax.
Timing of transfers to the local government fund
The bill increases the annual July transfer from the general fund to the local 
government fund to cover the full amount of expenditure restraint incentive 
program payments, computer aid payments, and video service provider fee aid 
payments that are paid to taxing jurisdictions from the local government fund by 
the 4th Monday in July.
Moving the date of computer aid payments
Beginning in 2026, the bill requires DOA to make computer aid payments to 
taxing jurisdictions by the first Monday in May.  Under current law, computers and 
certain computer-related equipment are exempt from local personal property taxes, 
and DOA makes computer aid payments to taxing jurisdictions to compensate them 
for the corresponding loss of property tax revenue.  Current law requires DOA to 
make computer aid payments by the fourth Monday in July.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 168 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
STATE GOVERNMENT
GENERAL  STATE  GOVERNMENT
Grants for local projects
Current law requires the Building Commission to establish and operate a 
grant program to assist nonstate organizations to carry out construction projects 
having a statewide public purpose.  Before approving each grant, the Building 
Commission must determine that the organization carrying out the project has 
secured additional funding for the project from nonstate revenue sources in an 
amount that is equal to at least 50 percent of the total cost of the project.
The bill transfers the grant program to DOA.  However, the Building 
Commission retains its role in approving each grant, making the statewide public 
purpose determination, and making the determination concerning the amount of 
nonstate funds the prospective grantee has raised for a project.
The bill further authorizes additional grants under the program to cities, 
villages, towns, counties, and tribal governments for construction projects having a 
statewide public purpose if the grant is approved by the Building Commission.  
Under the bill, these grants are funded from the interest earnings of the local 
government segregated fund.
Finally, the bill specifically authorizes the following grants under the 
program, which are subject to Building Commission approval and the other 
requirements and limitations under the program:
1.  A grant of up to $4,000,000 to assist the New Community Shelter, Inc., in 
the construction of a permanent supportive housing facility in Brown County.
2.  A grant of up to $6,000,000 to assist the YMCA of Metropolitan Milwaukee, 
Inc., and Community Smiles Dental in carrying out renovation of the historic 
Wisconsin Avenue School in the city of Milwaukee for use as a health and wellness 
center.
3.  A grant of up to $15,000,000 to assist the Second Harvest Foodbank of 
Southern Wisconsin, Inc., in constructing a new facility to expand food processing, 
storage, and distribution.
4.  A grant of up to $860,000 to assist the Colfax Railroad Museum, Inc., in 
constructing and renovating museum facilities in the village of Colfax to protect 
and display historical railroad artifacts.
5.  A grant of up to $3,000,000 to assist the city of Green Bay in the 
construction and development of a public market.
6.  A grant of up to $4,250,000 to assist the city of Glendale in the construction 
of a new library that will serve the communities of Bayside, Fox Point, Glendale, 
and River Hills, as well as all of Milwaukee County through the Milwaukee County 
Federated Library System.
7.  A grant of up to $2,000,000 to a nonstate organization or a city, village, 
town, or county for the purchase, construction, or renovation of a child care center 
in the southwest region of the state.
8.  A grant of up to $2,500,000 to assist Wellpoint Care Network, Inc., in 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 169 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
renovating an existing facility in the city of Milwaukee to establish a child care 
center.
Project labor agreements
Under current law, the state and local units of government are prohibited from 
engaging in certain practices in letting bids for state procurement or public works 
contracts. Among these prohibitions, the state and local governments may not do 
any of the following in specifications for bids for the contracts: 1) require that a 
bidder enter into an agreement with a labor organization; 2) consider, when 
awarding a contract, whether a bidder has or has not entered into an agreement 
with a labor organization; or 3) require that a bidder enter into an agreement that 
requires that the bidder or bidder [s employees become or remain members of a labor 
organization or pay any dues or fees to a labor organization.  The bill eliminates 
these limitations related to labor organizations.
Vacancies in certain appointive offices
Under current law, vacancies in public office may occur in a number of ways, 
including when the incumbent resigns, dies, or is removed from office, or, in the 
case of elected office, when the incumbent [s term expires.  However, as the 
Wisconsin Supreme Court held in State ex rel. Kaul v. Prehn , 2022 WI 50, expiration 
of an incumbent [s term of office does not create a vacancy if the office is filled by 
appointment for a fixed term.  Absent a vacancy or removal for cause, these 
incumbents may remain in office until their successors are appointed and qualified.
Under the bill, a vacancy in public office is created if the office is filled by 
appointment of the governor by and with the advice and consent of the senate for a 
fixed term and the incumbent [s term expires or the governor submits his or her 
nomination for the office to the senate, whichever is later.
Office of Violence Prevention
The bill creates the Office of Violence Prevention in DOA, establishes certain 
duties with respect to the office, and directs the office to award grants for 
community violence intervention.  The bill provides that the office must coordinate 
and expand violence prevention activities and work to reduce the incidences of 
interpersonal violence.  To achieve these goals, the office must do all of the 
following:
1.  Establish a violence prevention focus across state government.
2.  Collaborate with other state agencies that are interested or active in the 
reduction of interpersonal violence.
3.  Support the development and implementation of comprehensive, 
community-based violence prevention initiatives within local units of government 
across the state, including collaborating with law enforcement agencies.
4.  Develop sources of funding beyond state revenues to maintain the office and 
expand its activities.
5.  Create a directory of existing violence prevention services and activities in 
each county.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 170 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
6.  Support and provide technical assistance to local organizations that 
provide violence prevention services, including in seeking out and applying for 
grant funding in support of their initiatives.
7.  Develop public education campaigns to promote safer communities.
The bill directs the office to establish and implement a program to award 
grants to support effective violence reduction initiatives in communities across the 
state.  Up to $3,000,000 of the grants must be awarded to federally recognized 
American Indian tribes or bands in this state or organizations affiliated with tribes 
relating to missing and murdered indigenous women.  The bill also requires that up 
to $500,000 be awarded for grants related to suicide prevention for the following 
activities:  1) to train staff at a firearm retailer or firearm range on how to recognize 
a person who may be considering suicide; 2) to provide suicide prevention materials 
for distribution at a firearm retailer or firearm range; and 3) to provide voluntary, 
temporary firearm storage. 
Task force on Missing and Murdered African American Women and Girls
The bill creates the Task Force on Missing and Murdered African American 
Women and Girls.  The task force must examine various factors that contribute to 
violence against African American women and girls and submit to the governor two 
annual reports by December 31, 2026, on actions that can be taken to eliminate 
violence against African American women and girls.
Director of Native American affairs
The bill requires the secretary of administration to appoint a director of Native 
American affairs in the unclassified service to manage relations between the state 
and American Indian tribes or bands in the state.
Grants to each American Indian tribe or band in Wisconsin
The bill requires DOA to award grants of equal amounts to each American 
Indian tribe or band in the state for the following purposes:
1.  To programs to meet the needs of members of the tribe or band.
2.  To promote tribal language and cultural revitalization.
Under the bill, no grant moneys awarded under the above grant programs may 
be used to pay gaming-related expenses.
Other tribal grants
The bill requires DOA to do all of the following:
1.  Award grants to the Menominee Indian Tribe of Wisconsin to support the 
Menominee Indian Tribe [s transit services, in an amount not to exceed $266,600 
annually.
2.  Award grants to the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin to conduct an 
intergovernmental training program, available to all tribal governments in 
Wisconsin, to improve consultations and communication between the tribes and the 
state.  The grants may not total more than $60,000 annually.
3.  Award grants to the Wisconsin Indigenous Housing and Economic 
Development Corporation to support tribal economic development and housing 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 171 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
programs in Wisconsin.  The grants may not total more than $3,890,000 in the 
2025-26 fiscal year and $2,540,000 annually thereafter.
4.  Award grants to American Indian tribes or bands in this state to support 
strategic planning concerning cybersecurity, in an amount up to $250,000 annually.
5.  Award grants to American Indian tribes or bands in this state to support 
home repairs that reduce energy burdens and improve health outcomes, in an 
amount up to $1,000,000 annually.
Community climate engagement grant program
The bill requires DOA to establish and administer a community climate 
engagement grant program.  Under the program, DOA is required to award grants 
to local nongovernmental organizations in Wisconsin for the purpose of promoting 
local climate and clean energy community engagement.  Additionally, under the 
program, DOA is itself required to conduct and support outreach across Wisconsin 
concerning climate change, climate resilience, and the reduction of greenhouse gas 
emissions.
Community climate action grants
The bill requires DOA to create a grant program to assist local governmental 
units and governing bodies of federally recognized American Indian tribes and 
bands in this state with the development of climate risk assessment and action 
plans or to implement emission reduction and action projects.  Under the bill, DOA 
is required to assist local governments and tribal governments with the 
development of climate risk assessment and action plans.
Grants to provide civil legal services
The bill requires DOA to award grants to the Wisconsin Trust Account 
Foundation, Inc., for the purpose of providing civil legal services.
Translation services
The bill provides that DOA may provide assistance to state agencies for costs 
related to translation services that are provided to a state agency through a state 
contract.  The bill also appropriates GPR for the purpose.
Artificial intelligence tools and infrastructure support
The bill requires DOA to develop and maintain artificial intelligence tools and 
infrastructure for the benefit of state agencies, including the legislature and the 
courts.
Cybersecurity
Under current law, DOA is required to ensure that an adequate level of 
information technology services is made available to state agencies.  The bill 
requires that DOA additionally conduct cybersecurity emergency incident response 
for state agencies.  The bill funds those activities with up to $10,000,000 each fiscal 
year in moneys from the general fund that are allocated to sum sufficient 
appropriations of state agencies.  A sum sufficient appropriation is expendable in 
the amounts necessary to accomplish the purpose specified in the appropriation.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 172 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
The bill also creates an annual appropriation of GPR for DOA [s cybersecurity 
activities generally.
Cybersecurity insurance
The bill requires DOA to undertake planning and preparation to have a 
cybersecurity insurance program for executive branch agencies by the 2027 ]29 
fiscal biennium.
Closed meetings to consider information technology security issues
Under current law, a governmental body is generally required to meet in open 
session.  Open session is a meeting that is held in a place reasonably accessible to 
members of the public and open to all citizens at all times.
The bill allows a governmental body to go into closed session for the purpose of 
considering information technology security issues affecting information 
technology systems over which the governmental body has jurisdiction or exercises 
responsibility.
Funding for the Division of Alcohol Beverages
The bill creates a program-revenue appropriation to fund the Division of 
Alcohol Beverages (DAB) in DOR.
Under current law, the DAB administers and enforces the state [s alcohol 
beverage laws, including issuing alcohol beverage permits.  The DAB is currently 
funded from multiple DOR appropriations, including an appropriation that receives 
proceeds from an administrative fee of 11 cents per gallon on taxed distilled spirits.
The bill creates, for DAB, a single PR appropriation consisting of DAB permit 
fees and associated administrative fees and liquor tax administrative fees.
Public records location fee
Current law allows an authority to impose a fee on any person requesting a 
public record to cover the cost of locating that record, if the cost is $50 or more.  The 
location fee may not exceed the actual, necessary, and direct cost of locating the 
record.  Current law defines an Xauthority Y to include any elective official or state or 
local government agency that has custody of a public record.
Under the bill, the cost of locating a public record must be $100 or more before 
an authority may impose a fee to cover the actual, necessary, and direct cost of 
locating the record.
Lobbying fees
Under current law, fees paid to the Ethics Commission for lobbying activities 
are appropriated to the commission for the administration of the lobbying laws.  
The bill eliminates that appropriation and requires that all fees paid to the 
commission for lobbying activities be deposited in the general fund.
First class city school district audit response funding
The bill directs DOA to provide payments to a first class city school district 
(currently only Milwaukee Public Schools) to implement recommendations from 
audits of the school district initiated by the governor.  The payments may be used 
for items addressed in the audits, financial reporting software, and data 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 173 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
compatibility with state and local finance systems.  Additionally, the payments may 
be made only if, at the time of payment, the secretary of administration is satisfied 
that the school district is already making substantial progress on implementation 
of the audit recommendations.
TEACH program; GPR funding
Under current law, DOA administers the Technology for Educational 
Achievement (TEACH) program.  The TEACH program offers telecommunications 
access to school districts, private schools, cooperative educational service agencies, 
technical college districts, independent charter school authorizers, juvenile 
correctional facilities, private and tribal colleges, and public library boards at 
discounted rates.  Currently, the TEACH program is funded from the universal 
service fund.  The bill provides additional GPR for the TEACH program.
TEACH; broadband speed threshold
As part of TEACH, current law requires DOA to establish an educational 
telecommunications access program to provide educational agencies with access to 
data lines.  Under current law, DOA must require an educational agency to pay not 
more than $250 per month for each data line provided under the program.  
However, the maximum amount DOA may charge an educational agency for a data 
line is not more than $100 per month if the data line relies on a transport medium 
that operates at a speed of 1.544 megabits per second.  The bill increases the 
threshold speed for the $100 per month maximum payment to 100 megabits per 
second.
State AmeriCorps scholarship program
Under current law, an individual who completes a term of service in the 
AmeriCorps program may receive a Segal AmeriCorps education award to pay for 
post-secondary educational expenses.  The bill creates a program that provides a 
matching scholarship to individuals who are residents of Wisconsin or who 
complete their AmeriCorps service in Wisconsin.  Under the bill, the matching 
amounts are subject to availability of monies.  The scholarship money awarded 
under the program may only be used to pay tuition and fees at a technical college, 
college, or university in Wisconsin.
National and community service board appropriation
Current law appropriates moneys received from the federal Corporation for 
National and Community Service (CNCS) to administer the national and 
community service program and to provide grants for the national and community 
service program.  The bill changes the appropriation for administration from one 
that is limited to the amounts in the schedule to one that appropriates all moneys 
received that are designated for administration by the CNCS.  The bill also clarifies 
that the appropriation for grants appropriates all moneys received that are 
designated for grants by the CNCS.
BCPL payments in lieu of taxes appropriation
Under current law, land that the BCPL owns is not subject to property taxes. 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 174 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
For certain lands purchased on or after July 14, 2015, though, BCPL makes annual 
payments to municipalities in lieu of the property tax that would have been owed on 
these lands were they not tax exempt. Currently, the source of these payments is a 
sum certain appropriation.  The bill changes that appropriation to a sum sufficient 
appropriation.
Security services at multitenant state buildings and facilities
The bill eliminates the separate appropriation for security services at 
multitenant state buildings and facilities and moves the related purposes of the 
appropriation to a different appropriation.
STATE  FINANCE
Refunding certain general obligation debt
The bill increases from $11,235,000,000 to $12,835,000,000 the amount of 
state public debt that may be contracted to refund any unpaid indebtedness used to 
finance tax-supported or self-amortizing facilities.  The unpaid indebtedness 
includes unpaid premium and interest amounts.  Under current law, the Building 
Commission may not incur public debt for refunding purposes unless the true 
interest costs to the state can be reduced.
STATE  EMPLOYMENT
Paid family and medical leave
The bill requires the administrator of the Division of Personnel Management 
in DOA to develop a program for paid family and medical leave of 8 weeks annually 
for most state employees.  The bill requires the administrator to submit the plan for 
approval as a change to the state compensation plan to the Joint Committee on 
Employment Relations (JCOER).  If JCOER approves the plan, the plan becomes 
effective January 1, 2027.
The bill also requires the Board of Regents of the UW System to develop a plan 
for a program for paid family and medical leave of 8 weeks annually for employees of 
the system and requires the board to submit the plan to the administrator of the 
Division of Personnel Management in DOA with its compensation plan changes for 
the 2025-27 biennium.  If JCOER approves the plan, the program becomes effective 
January 1, 2027.
Paid sick leave for limited term employees
Under current law, permanent and project state employees receive the 
following paid leave: vacation; personal holidays; sick leave; and legal holidays.  The 
bill requires the state to provide paid sick leave to limited term employees of the 
state at the same rate as to permanent and project state employees.
The bill also requires the Board of Regents of the UW System to develop a plan 
for a program for paid sick leave for temporary employees of the system and 
requires the board to submit the plan to the administrator of the Division of 
Personnel Management in DOA with its compensation plan changes for the 
2025]27 fiscal biennium.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 175 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Green Bay Correctional Institution
The bill allows the director of the Bureau of Merit Recruitment and Selection 
in the Division of Personnel Management in DOA to waive competitive hiring 
procedures for an employee in the classified service at the Green Bay Correctional 
Institution (GBCI) during the period the facility is decommissioned if the 
individual is qualified to perform the duties of the position and the position the 
individual will be filling is assigned to a class at a pay range that is the same as 
individual [s position at GBCI, or a lower pay range.
Vacation hours for state employees
The bill provides additional annual leave hours to state employees during 
their third, fourth, and fifth years of service.
Under current law, state employees who are in nonexempt status under the 
federal Fair Labor Standards Act earn annual leave at the rate of 104 hours per 
year of continuous service during the first five years of service and, on an 
employee [s fifth anniversary of continuous service, the rate increase to 144 hours of 
annual leave per year of continuous service. Under the bill, beginning on the 
employee [s second anniversary, a state employee in nonexempt status begins 
earning vacation hours at the rate of 120 hours per year of service.
Under current law, state employees who are in exempt status under the federal 
Fair Labor Standards Act earn annual vacation at the rate of 120 hours per year of 
continuous service during the first five years of service and, on the fifth 
anniversary of continuous service, the rate increase to 160 hours of annual leave 
per year of continuous service. Under the bill, beginning on the employee [s second 
anniversary, a state employee in exempt status begins earning vacation hours at the 
rate of 136 hours per year of service.
Removal of salary caps for WHEFA employees
Current law allows WHEFA to employ an executive director and limits the 
compensation of the executive director to the maximum of the salary range 
established for positions assigned to executive salary group 6.  Current law also 
limits the compensation of each other employee of WHEFA to the maximum of the 
salary range established for positions assigned to executive salary group 3.  The bill 
removes these limits on compensation of the executive director and employees of 
WHEFA.
Apprenticeship programs
Under current law, state agencies may provide on-the-job and off-the-job 
training to employees without loss of pay to employees.  This includes research 
projects, courses of study, institutes, short courses related to the performance of the 
employee [s job duties, and paying for tuition and related fees.  The bill allows a state 
agency to provide an apprenticeship program.  Under such a program, an 
apprentice is a probationary employee for the duration of the apprenticeship and 
attains permanent status upon completion of the apprenticeship but may be 
separated at any time during the apprenticeship without right of appeal.  Under the 
bill, the compensation plan for state employees may allow for rates of pay for 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 176 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
apprentices that reflect the appropriate beginning pay for apprentices as well as 
pay increases for the attainment of additional qualifications during the 
apprenticeship.  Finally, the bill provides that apprentices may take paid holidays 
in the same manner as other probationary employees.
Juneteenth state holiday
The bill designates June 19, the day on which Juneteenth is celebrated, as a 
state holiday on which state offices are closed.  Under current law, the offices of the 
agencies of state government are generally closed on Saturdays, Sundays, and a 
total of nine state holidays.  The bill also requires the administrator of the Division 
of Personnel Management in DOA to include June 19 and November 11, which is 
the day on which Veterans Day is traditionally celebrated, as paid holidays for UW 
System employees in the proposal it submits to the Joint Committee on Employee 
Relations for compensation plan changes for the 2025 ]27 fiscal biennium.
Veterans Day state holiday
The bill designates November 11, the day on which Veterans Day is 
traditionally celebrated, as a state holiday on which state offices are closed.  Under 
current law, the offices of the agencies of state government are generally closed on 
Saturdays, Sundays, and a total of nine state holidays.  Additionally, under current 
law, state employees receive annually a total of 4.5 paid personal holidays, one of 
which is provided specifically in recognition of Veterans Day.  Under the bill, state 
employees continue to receive 4.5 paid personal holidays.  However, the bill removes 
the specification that one of the paid personal holidays is provided in recognition of 
Veterans Day.
In total, the bill increases the number of regular paid holidays state employees 
receive annually from nine days to 11 days.
Supplemental appropriations for salary and fringe benefit costs incurred 
in enterprise assessments and billings
Under current law, if employees of an agency receive a salary increase under a 
compensation plan approved by JCOER or under a contract approved by the 
legislature, a state agency can request a program supplement to the agency [s 
budget from JCF in order to pay for the salary increase and related costs.
Some state agencies pay for services provided by DOA employees rather than 
having their own employees perform those services, and DOA assesses or bills the 
agencies for the services provided by DOA employees.  The bill creates four new 
appropriations from which an agency may request a program supplement when 
DOA assesses or bills the agency for increased costs for those services due to a 
salary increase under a compensation plan approved by JCOER or under a contract 
approved by the legislature.
Project employees of district attorney offices under ARPA
The bill provides that individuals who are in project positions that were 
funded by the federal American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 in offices of district 
attorneys may be appointed to equivalent permanent positions in those offices 
without going through the civil service hiring process as new hires. 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 177 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Project employees of the Public Defender Board under ARPA
The bill provides that individuals who are in project positions that were 
funded by the federal American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and who are employed by 
the Public Defender Board may be appointed to equivalent permanent positions in 
those offices without going through the civil service hiring process as new hires.
Position transfers and funding changes
Under the bill, all of the following occur: on January 1, 2027, the funding 
source for 24.0 FTE FED positions in DOA changes from a single DOA 
appropriation to two DOA program revenue appropriations and one DOA GPR 
appropriation; and 17.5 FTE FED positions and incumbent employees transfer 
from DOA to the Wisconsin Employment Relations Commission, and the position 
funding changes to a single WERC GPR appropriation.
SECRETARY  OF STATE
Deputy secretary of state
The bill creates the position of deputy secretary of state.  The secretary of state 
may delegate any duty or power to the deputy secretary of state, except duties and 
powers the secretary of state performs as a member of the BCPL.
Appropriations to the secretary of state
Under current law, DFI [s general program operations are funded from an 
annual program revenue appropriation.  From this appropriation, $150,000 is 
transferred annually to an appropriation to the secretary of state for general 
program operations.  The bill increases the amount of the transfer to $502,900 in 
the 2025 ]26 fiscal year and $555,400 annually thereafter.
The bill also creates a continuing appropriation to the secretary of state of all 
moneys received from the federal government to be expended for the purposes for 
which received and creates a continuing program revenue appropriation to the 
secretary of state of all moneys received by the secretary of state from gifts, grants, 
bequests, and devises to be expended for the purposes for which made and received.  
The bill makes certain other changes to appropriations to the secretary of state, 
including an increase in the lapse of certain moneys appropriated to the secretary of 
state to the general fund at the end of each fiscal year.
Office of the Secretary of State
The bill provides that the Office of the Secretary of State is the exclusive office 
that may affix the great seal of the state of Wisconsin to a document and  
authenticate the document.  The bill also provides that the Office of the Secretary of 
State must provide apostille services.
LEGISLATURE
Popular initiative and referendum
The bill requires the legislature to introduce and vote on a joint resolution 
providing for a constitutional amendment that creates a petition process by which 
the people may propose and approve laws and constitutional amendments at an 
election and that creates a referendum process by which the people may reject an 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 178 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
act of the legislature.  A proposed constitutional amendment requires adoption by 
two successive legislatures, and ratification by the people, before it can become 
effective.
Specifically, the proposed constitutional amendment provides that the people 
may file a petition with the agency that administers state elections (currently the 
Elections Commission) for a referendum to reject any act of the legislature, a section 
of any act, or an item of appropriation in any act.
A petition for referendum must be signed by qualified electors equaling at 
least 4 percent of the vote cast for the office of governor at the last preceding 
gubernatorial election.  A qualified elector is a U.S. citizen age 18 or older who has 
resided in an election district or ward in Wisconsin for at least 28 days.
After validating a petition [s signatures, the agency that administers state 
elections is required to order a referendum at the next general election occurring at 
least 120 days after the petition was filed with the agency.  No act or part of an act 
rejected in a referendum may be reenacted during the legislative session in which it 
was rejected.
The proposed constitutional amendment further provides that the people may 
propose, by petition filed with the agency that administers state elections, laws and 
constitutional amendments for a vote at an election.  The petition must satisfy all of 
the following conditions:
1.  For a petition for an initiative law, be signed by qualified electors equaling 
at least 6 percent of the vote cast for the office of governor at the last preceding 
gubernatorial election.
2.  For a petition for an initiative constitutional amendment, be signed by 
qualified electors equaling at least 8 percent of the vote cast for the office of 
governor at the last preceding gubernatorial election.
3.  Include the full text of the proposed law or constitutional amendment 
prepared in proper form.  Upon request by any qualified elector, the agency that 
administers state elections is required to have the proposed law or constitutional 
amendment drafted in proper form and made available to the public.  The proposed 
law or amendment must embrace no more than one subject, and that subject must 
be expressed in the title.
4.  Be filed with the agency that administers state elections not less than 120 
days before the election at which the proposed law or constitutional amendment is 
to be voted upon.
Similar to the process for a referendum, after verifying an initiative petition [s 
signatures, the agency that administers state elections is required to order the 
submission of the initiative law or constitutional amendment to the qualified 
electors of the state for their approval or rejection at the next succeeding general 
election occurring at least 120 days after the petition was filed with the agency.
If approved by a majority of the qualified electors voting at the election, an 
initiative law or constitutional amendment goes into effect on the 30th day after the 
date the agency that administers state elections certifies the election results, unless 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 179 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
a different effective date is specified in the initiative.  The legislature may not 
repeal or amend an initiative law for the two years immediately succeeding its 
publication and may not repeal or amend an initiative law except by a vote of two-
thirds of all members elected to each house.  If an initiative law or constitutional 
amendment is rejected at the election, substantially the same initiative law or 
amendment, as determined by the agency that administers state elections, may not 
be considered again by voters under the initiative process for at least five years.
Legislative intervention in certain court proceedings
Current law provides that the legislature may intervene as a matter of right in 
an action in state or federal court when a party to the action does any of the 
following:
1.  Challenges the constitutionality of a statute.
2.  Challenges a statute as violating or being preempted by federal law.
3.  Otherwise challenges the construction or validity of a statute.
Current law further provides that the legislature must be served with a copy 
of the proceedings in all such actions, regardless of whether the legislature 
intervenes in the action.
The bill eliminates all of these provisions.
Retention of legal counsel by the legislature
Current law allows representatives to the assembly and senators, as well as 
legislative employees, to receive legal representation from DOJ in most legal 
proceedings.  However, current law also provides all of the following:
1.  With respect to the assembly, that the speaker of the assembly may 
authorize a representative to the assembly or assembly employee who requires legal 
representation to obtain outside legal counsel if the acts or allegations underlying 
the action are arguably within the scope of the representative [s or employee [s 
legislative duties, and the speaker may obtain outside legal counsel in any action in 
which the assembly is a party or in which the interests of the assembly are affected, 
as determined by the speaker.
2.  With respect to the senate, that the senate majority leader may authorize a 
senator or senate employee who requires legal representation to obtain outside legal 
counsel if the acts or allegations underlying the action are arguably within the 
scope of the senator [s or employee [s legislative duties, and the majority leader may 
obtain outside legal counsel in any action in which the senate is a party or in which 
the interests of the senate are affected, as determined by the majority leader.
3.  That the cochairpersons of the Joint Committee on Legislative 
Organization (JCLO) may authorize a legislative service agency employee who 
requires legal representation to obtain outside legal counsel if the acts or 
allegations underlying the action are arguably within the scope of the employee [s 
legislative duties, and the cochairpersons may obtain outside legal counsel in any 
action in which the legislature is a party or in which the interests of the legislature 
are affected, as determined by the cochairpersons.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 180 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
The bill eliminates these provisions.  Under the bill, representatives to the 
assembly and senators, as well as legislative employees, may continue to receive 
legal representation from DOJ in most legal proceedings.
Advice and consent of the senate
Under current law, any individual nominated by the governor or another state 
officer or agency subject to the advice and consent of the senate, whose 
confirmation for the office or position is rejected by the senate, may not do any of the 
following during the legislative session biennium in which his or her nomination is 
rejected:
1.  Hold the office or position for which he or she was rejected.
2.  Be nominated again for that office or position.
3.  Perform any duties of that office or position.
The bill eliminates those restrictions.
Records and correspondence of legislators
Under current law, the Public Records Board prescribes policies and 
standards for the retention and disposition of public records made or received by a 
state officer or agency.  However, for purposes of public records retention, the 
definition of Xpublic records Y does not include the records and correspondence of 
any legislator.  The bill eliminates that exception for a legislator [s records and 
correspondence.
Passive review by JCF; objections to be public
Current law requires that JCF review certain proposed actions before an 
agency may execute the action.  The review required often takes the form of a 
passive review.  In a passive review, the agency must submit the proposed action to 
JCF and if the cochairpersons of JCF do not notify the agency within a certain 
period, often 14 days, that a member of JCF has objected to the action, the agency 
may execute the proposed action.  If, however, a member objects, the agency is 
limited to the action as approved or modified by JCF.  The bill specifies that the 
name of any JCF member who objects to the proposed action, as well as the reason 
the member objects, must be recorded and made publicly available.
Capitol security
Under current law, DOA is required to submit any proposed changes to 
security at the capitol, including the posting of a firearm restriction, to JCLO for 
approval under passive review.  The bill eliminates that requirement.
TAXATION
INCOME  TAXATION
Tax exemption for tips
The bill creates an income tax exemption for cash tips received by an employee 
from the customers of the employee [s employer.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 181 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Earned income tax credit
The bill increases the amount that an individual with fewer than three 
qualifying children may claim as the Wisconsin earned income tax credit (EITC).  
Under current law, the Wisconsin EITC is equal to a percentage of the federal 
EITC.  The percentage is 4 percent of the federal EITC if the individual has one 
qualifying child, 11 percent if the individual has two qualifying children, and 34 
percent if the individual has three or more qualifying children.  The credit is 
refundable, which means that if the credit exceeds the individual [s tax liability, he 
or she will receive the excess as a refund check.
Under the bill, the percentage of the federal EITC that an eligible individual 
may claim for Wisconsin purposes is 16 percent if the individual has one qualifying 
child, 25 percent if the individual has two qualifying children, and 34 percent if the 
individual has three or more qualifying children.
Homestead tax credit expansion
Under current law, the homestead tax credit is a refundable income tax credit 
that may be claimed by homeowners and renters.  The credit is based on the 
claimant [s household income and the amount of property taxes or rent constituting 
property taxes on his or her Wisconsin homestead.  Because the credit is 
refundable, if the credit exceeds the claimant [s income tax liability, he or she 
receives the excess as a refund check.  Under current law, there are three key dollar 
amounts used when calculating the credit:
1.  If household income is $8,060 or less, the credit is 80 percent of the property 
taxes or rent constituting property taxes.  If household income exceeds $8,060, the 
property taxes or rent constituting property taxes are reduced by 8.785 percent of 
the household income exceeding $8,060, and the credit is 80 percent of the reduced 
property taxes or rent constituting property taxes.
2.  The credit may not be claimed if household income exceeds $24,680.
3.  The maximum property taxes or rent constituting property taxes used to 
calculate the credit is $1,460.
Beginning with claims filed for the 2025 tax year, the bill increases the income 
phase-out threshold from $8,060 to $19,000, reduces the percentage used for 
household income above the income phase-out threshold to 7.891 percent, and 
increases the maximum income amount from $24,680 to $37,500.  The bill also 
indexes the $19,000, $37,500, and $1,460 amounts for inflation during future tax 
years.
Changing the name of the homestead credit
The bill also renames the homestead income tax credit to the property tax and 
rent rebate.
Veterans and surviving spouses property tax credit eligibility expansion
The bill reduces the eligibility threshold for an eligible veteran, the spouse of 
an eligible veteran, and the unremarried surviving spouse of an eligible veteran to 
claim the veterans and surviving spouses property tax credit under the individual 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 182 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
income tax system.  Under the bill, a claimant may claim the credit if the service-
connected disability rating of the veteran for whom the claimant is claiming the 
credit is at least 70 percent.  Currently, that rating must be 100 percent.
Under the bill, the maximum credit that a claimant may claim is multiplied by 
the percentage of the service-connected disability rating.  The bill does not affect a 
claimant who claims the credit based on the individual unemployability rating.  
Under current law, a claimant may also claim the credit if the disability rating 
based on individual unemployability of the veteran for whom the claimant is 
claiming the credit is 100 percent.
Rent qualifying for the veterans and surviving spouses property tax credit
Current law does not expressly address the treatment of renters for purposes 
of claiming the veterans and surviving spouses property tax credit.  DOR allows an 
eligible veteran or surviving spouse who is a renter to claim the credit if he or she is 
required to pay the property taxes under a written agreement with the landlord 
and pays the property taxes directly to the municipality.
Under the bill, an eligible veteran or surviving spouse who is a renter may 
claim the veterans and surviving spouses property tax credit in an amount equal to 
his or her rent constituting property taxes.  The bill defines Xrent constituting 
property taxes Y to mean 20 percent of the rent paid during the year for the use of a 
principal dwelling if heat is included in the rent and 25 percent of the rent if heat is 
not included.
Adding a fifth income tax bracket
The bill adds a fifth income tax bracket having a rate of 9.80 percent for 
individuals and married joint filers with taxable income exceeding $1,000,000 and 
for married separate filers with taxable income exceeding $500,000.  Under current 
law, there are four income tax brackets for single individuals, certain fiduciaries, 
heads of households, and married persons.  The brackets are indexed for inflation.
Under the bill, which first applies to taxable year 2025, there are five income 
tax brackets for single individuals, certain fiduciaries, heads of households, and 
married persons.  The brackets are indexed for inflation.  The rate of taxation under 
the bill for the five brackets for single individuals, certain fiduciaries, and heads of 
households, before indexing, is as follows:
1.  For taxable income not exceeding $7,500, 3.5 percent.
2.  For taxable income exceeding $7,500, but not $15,000, 4.40 percent.
3. For taxable income exceeding $15,000, but not $225,000, 5.3 percent.
4. For taxable income exceeding $225,000, but not $1,000,000, 7.65 percent.
5. For taxable income exceeding $1,000,000, 9.80 percent.
The rates that apply to married joint filers under the bill are the same as the 
rates that apply to single individuals, fiduciaries, and heads of households, but the 
income limitations are higher.  The lowest bracket applies to taxable income not 
exceeding $10,000; the second bracket applies to taxable income exceeding $10,000, 
but not $20,000; the third bracket applies to taxable income exceeding $20,000, but 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 183 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
not $300,000; the fourth bracket applies to taxable income exceeding $300,000, but 
not $1,000,000; and the fifth bracket applies to taxable income exceeding 
$1,000,000.
Increasing the personal exemption
The bill increases from $700 to $1,200 the income tax personal exemption for 
taxpayers, their spouses, and their dependents.
Manufacturing and agriculture credit limitation
Currently, a person may claim a tax credit on the basis of the person [s income 
from manufacturing or agriculture.  A taxpayer may claim a credit equal to 7.5 
percent of the income derived either from the sale of tangible personal property 
manufactured in whole or in part on property in this state that is assessed as 
manufacturing property or from the sale of tangible personal property produced, 
grown, or extracted in whole or in part from property in this state assessed as 
agricultural property.  If the amount of the credit exceeds the taxpayer [s income tax 
liability, the taxpayer does not receive a refund, but may apply the balance to the 
taxpayer [s tax liability in subsequent taxable years.
The bill limits to $300,000 the amount of income from manufacturing that a 
person may use as the basis for claiming the credit.  The bill does not affect the 
amount of income from agriculture that may be used as a basis for claiming the 
credit.
Film production tax credit
The bill creates income and franchise tax credits for film production 
companies, and the Department of Tourism implements the tax credit.  Under the 
bill, a film production company may claim a credit that is equal to 25 percent of the 
salary or wages paid to the company [s employees in the taxable year for services 
rendered in this state to produce a film, video, broadcast advertisement, or 
television production, as approved by the Department of Tourism, and paid to 
employees who were residents of this state at the time that they were paid.  The 
total amount of the credits that may be claimed by a taxpayer may not exceed an 
amount that is equal to the first $250,000 of salary and wages paid to each of the 
taxpayer [s employees in the taxable year, not including the salary or wages paid to 
the taxpayer [s two highest-paid employees in the taxable year, for a production with 
budgeted expenditures of $1,000,000 or more.  If the total amount of the credits 
claimed by a taxpayer exceeds the taxpayer [s tax liability, the state will not issue a 
refund, but the taxpayer may carry forward any remaining credit to subsequent 
taxable years.
Under the bill, a film production company may claim an income and franchise 
tax credit in an amount that is equal to 25 percent of the production expenditures 
paid by the company in the taxable year to produce a film, video, broadcast 
advertisement, or television production.  If the total amount of the credits claimed 
by the company exceeds the company [s tax liability, the state will issue a refund.
The bill also allows a film production company to claim an income and 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 184 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
franchise tax credit, for the first three taxable years that the company is doing 
business in this state, in an amount that is equal to 25 percent of the amount that 
the claimant paid in the taxable year to purchase depreciable tangible personal 
property or to acquire, construct, rehabilitate, remodel, or repair real property.
Under the bill, a film production company may claim an income and franchise 
tax credit that is equal to the amount of sales and use taxes that the claimant paid 
for tangible personal property and taxable services that are used to produce a film, 
video, broadcast advertisement, or television production in this state.
The bill provides that the Department of Tourism may not allocate more than 
$10,000,000 in film production and investments tax credits in each fiscal year.  The 
bill also requires the Department of Tourism to annually submit a report to the 
legislature that specifies the number of persons who submitted credit applications 
in the previous year and the amount of the credits allocated to each such applicant 
and to make recommendations on improving the efficiency of the program.  Finally, 
the bill requires the Legislative Audit Bureau to biennially prepare a performance 
evaluation audit of the program implemented by the Department of Tourism.
Eligibility of nuclear power research for the research credit
Under the bill, beginning in the 2025 tax year, qualified research expenses 
incurred for research related to nuclear power are eligible for the research income 
tax credit.  Under current law, the research credit is an income and franchise tax 
credit equal to a specified percentage of the person [s qualified research expenses 
that exceed 50 percent of the average qualified research expenses for the three 
taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year for which the person claims 
the credit.  Current law allows a person to receive a refund in an amount not 
exceeding 25 percent of their allowable claim for the research credit.
Changes to state supplement to federal historic rehabilitation credit
The bill makes the following changes to the state supplement to the federal 
historic rehabilitation credit:  1) eliminates the requirement for claiming the credit 
of incurring at least $50,000 in qualified rehabilitation expenditures; 2) eliminates 
the requirement that the state credit be claimed at the same time as the claimant 
claims the federal historic rehabilitation credit; and 3) allows partnerships, limited 
liability companies, and tax-option corporations to claim the credit and prohibits 
partners of a partnership, members of a limited liability company, and shareholders 
of a tax-option corporation from claiming the credit.  Current law authorizes WEDC 
to certify a person to receive a tax credit equal to 20 percent of the qualified 
rehabilitation expenses, as defined under federal law, for certified historic 
structures on property located in this state and for the rehabilitation expenses for 
qualified rehabilitated buildings, as defined under federal law, that are not certified 
historic structures.
Flood insurance premiums
The bill creates a nonrefundable individual income tax credit for flood 
insurance premiums.  The credit is equal to 10 percent of the amount of the 
premiums that an individual paid in the taxable year for flood insurance, but the 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 185 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
amount of the claim may not exceed $60 in any taxable year.  Because the credit is 
nonrefundable, it may be claimed only up to the amount of the individual [s tax 
liability.
Private school tuition deduction
Under current law, an individual, when computing income for income tax 
purposes, may deduct the tuition paid during the year to send his or her dependent 
child to private school.  The maximum deduction is $4,000 for an elementary school 
pupil and $10,000 for a secondary school pupil.
Under the bill, only individuals whose Wisconsin adjusted gross income is 
below a threshold amount may claim the deduction for private school tuition.  The 
threshold amount is $100,000 for single individuals and heads of household, 
$150,000 for married couples filing jointly, and $75,000 for married individuals 
filing separately.
Increasing disability income subtraction and expanding eligibility
The bill increases and expands the individual state income tax subtraction, or 
deduction, for disability payments received by a person under the age of 65 who is 
retired and who is permanently and totally disabled.  Under the bill, beginning in 
tax year 2025, up to $5,500 of disability payments may be subtracted annually from 
an individual [s taxable income.  In addition, the bill expands eligibility for claiming 
the subtraction to individuals having a federal adjusted gross income under 
$30,000 or under $60,000 if married.
Under current law, up to $5,000 of disability payments may be subtracted, and 
to be eligible, a person must have federal adjusted gross income under $20,200 or 
under $25,400 if married and both spouses are disabled.
Subtraction for labor organization dues
Beginning in 2027, the bill provides an individual income tax subtraction for 
the amount of membership dues and expenses paid by a person to a labor 
organization.
Increasing the adoption deduction
The bill increases to $15,000 the maximum deduction allowed for adoption 
expenses for purposes of the state income tax.  Under current law, a full-year 
resident who is an adoptive parent may deduct from taxable income up to $5,000 of 
the adoption fees, court costs, or legal fees relating to the adoption of a child paid 
during the tax year during which the final order of adoption has been entered and 
paid during the prior two tax years.
Tax credit for installing universal changing stations
The bill creates an income and franchise tax credit for small businesses that 
install universal changing stations.  Under the bill, a Xuniversal changing station Y 
is a floor-mounted or wall-mounted, powered, and height-adjustable adult changing 
table with a safety rail that can be used for personal hygiene by an individual with 
a disability of either sex and the individual [s care provider.
The credit applies for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024.  2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 186 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Under the bill, a small business is any entity that, during the preceding taxable 
year, either had gross receipts of no more than $1,000,000 or employed no more 
than 30 full-time employees.  The credit is equal to 50 percent of the amount the 
small business paid to install the universal changing station, up to a maximum 
credit of $5,125.  The credit may be claimed only if the universal changing station 
meets certain requirements relating to size, maneuverability space, weight load, 
and adjustability.
Dividends received deduction limitation
Current law allows corporations to deduct, for income and franchise tax 
purposes, the dividends received from related corporations.  The dividends must be 
paid on common stock, and the corporation receiving the dividends must own at 
least 70 percent of the total combined voting stock of the other corporation.  Current 
law also allows businesses to carry forward net business losses to future taxable 
years in order to offset income in those years.  Under the bill, a business may not 
take the dividends received deduction into account when determining if it has a net 
business loss that can be carried forward.
Internal Revenue Code references
The bill adopts, for state income and franchise tax purposes, certain changes 
made to the Internal Revenue Code by the federal Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted 
in December 2017.  The bill adopts provisions of the act related to the limitation on 
losses for taxpayers other than corporations; certain special rules for the taxable 
year of inclusion; the limitation on business-related deduction for interest; the 
limitation on the deduction by employers of expenses for fringe benefits; the 
limitation on the deduction for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums; 
and the limitation on excessive employee remuneration.
PROPERTY  TAXATION
Increasing the school levy property tax credit
The bill increases the appropriation for the school levy property tax credit so 
that the total amount distributed to claim against property tax liability is 
$1,400,300,000 in the 2025 ]26 fiscal year and $1,524,700,000 in the 2026 ]27 fiscal 
year.  Currently the annual distribution is $1,275,000,000.
Telecom and communication tower exemption
The bill exempts radio, cellular, and telecommunication towers from the 
property tax.  The bill also exempts radio, cellular, and telecommunication towers 
that are classified as real property from the telephone company tax.
School aid reduction information
The bill requires that a person [s property tax bill include information from the 
school district where the property is located regarding the amount of any gross 
reduction in state aid to the district as a result of pupils enrolled in the statewide 
choice program or the Racine choice program or as a result of making payments to 
private schools under the special needs scholarship program.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 187 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Manufacturing property assessment fees
Under current law, DOR assesses manufacturing property for property tax 
purposes and imposes a fee on each municipality in which the property is located to 
cover part of the assessment costs.  If a municipality does not pay by March 31 of the 
following year, DOR reduces the municipality [s July and November shared revenue 
distribution by the amount of the fee.  The bill requires the fee to be collected from 
a reduction in the municipality [s shared revenue distribution, and if DOR is unable 
to collect the fee in this manner, then the fee is directly imposed on the 
municipality.
GENERAL  TAXATION
Sales tax exemption for electricity and natural gas
Under current law, electricity and natural gas sold during the months of 
November, December, January, February, March, and April for residential use is 
exempt from the sales and use tax.  The bill exempts from the sales and use tax 
electricity and natural gas sold for residential use regardless of when it is sold.
Sales tax exemption for over-the-counter drugs
The bill creates a sales and use tax exemption for the sale of over-the-counter 
drugs.
County and municipality sales and use taxes
Current law allows a county to enact an ordinance to impose sales and use 
taxes at the rate of 0.5 percent of the sales price or purchase price on tangible 
personal property and taxable services.  The county must use the revenue from the 
taxes for property tax relief.  Under the bill, a county may impose that county sales 
and use tax at the rate of 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, or 0.5 percent.  The bill also allows a 
county, except for Milwaukee County, to impose, by ordinance, an additional sales 
and use tax at the rate of 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, or 0.5 percent of the sales price or 
purchase price on tangible personal property and taxable services.  However, the 
ordinance does not take effect unless approved by a majority of the voters of the 
county at a referendum.  The revenue from those taxes may be used for any purpose 
designated by the county board or specified in the ordinance or in the referendum 
approving the ordinance.
The bill also allows a municipality, except for the City of Milwaukee, with a 
2020 population exceeding 30,000 to enact an ordinance to impose sales and use 
taxes at the rate of 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, or 0.5 percent of the sales price or purchase 
price on tangible personal property and taxable services.  The ordinance does not 
take effect unless approved by a majority of the voters of the municipality at a 
referendum.  The revenue from those taxes may be used for any purpose designated 
by the governing body of the municipality or specified in the ordinance or in the 
referendum approving the ordinance.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 188 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Sales tax exemption for diapers and feminine hygiene products
The bill creates a sales and use tax exemption for the sale of diapers and 
feminine hygiene products.
Breastfeeding equipment
The bill creates a sales and use tax exemption for breast pumps, breast pump 
kits, and breast pump storage and collection supplies.
Sales and use tax exemption for gun safety items
The bill creates a sales and use tax exemption for sales of gun safes, trigger 
locks, and gun barrel locks.
Prairie and wetland counseling services
Under current law, the sale of landscaping and lawn maintenance services is 
subject to the sales tax.  The bill excludes from taxable landscaping services the 
planning and counseling services for the restoration, reclamation, or revitalization 
of prairie, savanna, or wetlands if such services are provided for a separate and 
optional fee distinct from other services.
Sales tax exemption for energy systems
Current law provides a sales and use tax exemption for a product that has as 
its power source wind energy, direct radiant energy received from the sun, or gas 
generated from anaerobic digestion of animal manure and other agricultural waste, 
if the product produces at least 200 watts of alternating current or 600 British 
thermal units per day.  The sale of electricity or energy produced by the product is 
also exempt.
The bill modifies current law so that the exemption applies to solar power 
systems and wind energy systems that produce electrical or heat energy directly 
from the sun or wind and are capable of continuously producing at least 200 watts 
of alternating current or 600 British thermal units.  In addition, the exemption 
applies to a waste energy system that produces electrical or heat energy directly 
from gas generated from anaerobic digestion of animal manure and other 
agricultural waste and is capable of continuously producing at least 200 watts of 
alternating current or 600 British thermal units.  A system for which the exemption 
applies includes tangible personal property sold with the system that is used 
primarily to store or facilitate the storage of the electrical or heat energy produced 
by the system.
Elimination of sales tax exemption for farm-raised deer
The bill eliminates the sales and use tax exemption that applies to the sale of 
farm-raised deer to a person operating a hunting preserve or game farm in this 
state.
Vapor products
Current law imposes a tax on vapor products, which are any noncombustible 
products that produce vapor or aerosol for inhalation from the application of a 
heating element to a liquid or other substance that is depleted as the product is 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 189 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
used, regardless of whether the liquid or other substance contains nicotine.  The tax 
is imposed at the rate of 5 cents per milliliter of the liquid or other substance based 
on the volume as listed by the manufacturer.
The bill taxes vapor products at the rate of 71 percent of the manufacturer [s 
established list price and modifies the definition of Xvapor product. Y  Under the bill, 
Xvapor product Y means a noncombustible product that employs a heating element, 
power source, electronic circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means 
that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other substance, regardless of 
whether the product contains nicotine.  A Xvapor product Y is defined to include an 
electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar 
product or device, as well as any container of a solution or other substance that is 
intended to be used with these items.  The bill specifies that any product regulated 
by the federal Food and Drug Administration as a drug or device is not a vapor 
product.
Little cigars
The bill taxes little cigars at the same rate as the excise tax imposed on 
cigarettes.  Under current law, all cigars are taxed at the rate of 71 percent of the 
manufacturer [s established list price, limited to 50 cents per cigar.  Under the bill, 
little cigars are taxed at the rate of 126 mills per little cigar, regardless of weight.  
The bill defines Xlittle cigar Y to mean a cigar that has an integrated cellulose 
acetate filter and is wrapped in any substance containing tobacco.
Filing fee increase for petitions to Tax Appeals Commission
The bill increases the filing fee paid by petitioners who file certain petitions 
for review with the Tax Appeals Commission.  Specifically, under the bill, the filing 
fee increases from $25 to $250 for petitions that do not involve a small claims case.  
The bill also modifies the definition of Xsmall claims Y to a matter in which the 
amount in controversy is less than or equal to the amount used to determine the 
applicability of small claims procedure to certain civil actions under current law, 
which is currently $10,000.  Under current law, the definition of Xsmall claims Y for 
cases decided by the Tax Appeals Commission is $2,500, and certain procedures of 
the Tax Appeals Commission for deciding cases differ between small claims cases 
and non]small claims cases.
Electronic filing of petitions with Tax Appeals Commission
The bill allows electronic filing of petitions for review to the Tax Appeals 
Commission and specifies that a petition filed electronically is considered timely 
filed if submitted by midnight of the last day for filing.
Providing notices for public utility taxes
Under current law, public utility companies, including railroads and air 
carriers, are exempt from local property taxes and instead are subject to special 
state taxes.  Current law requires DOR to send certain notices regarding these 
taxes by certified mail.  Under the bill, DOR must still provide the notices but is no 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 190 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
longer required to send them to public utilities subject to ad valorem taxes by 
certified mail.
TRANSPORTATION
HIGHWAYS  AND LOCAL  ASSISTANCE
Enumeration of the I 39/90/94 project
Under current law, major highway projects must be specifically authorized by 
the legislature and approved by the transportation projects commission before 
construction on the project may begin.  The bill enumerates the I 39/90/94 project, 
which the bill defines to mean XI 39/90/94 extending approximately 67 miles in 
Dane, Columbia, Sauk, and Juneau counties from USH 12/18 in Madison to USH 
12/STH 16 in Wisconsin Dells, including I 39 from I 90/94 to Levee Road near the 
city of Portage, and including all interchanges and work on adjacent roadways 
necessary for the completion of the project. Y
Currently, moneys are appropriated to DOT for various purposes relating to 
state highway facilities.  DOT is prohibited from encumbering or expending those 
moneys for purposes related to the purchase of land, easements, or development 
rights in land, unless the purchase is in association with a highway project and the 
land or interest in land is located within one-quarter mile of the highway.  The bill 
exempts the I 39/90/94 project from this prohibition.
Sound barriers on I 894
The bill requires DOT, during the 2025 ]27 fiscal biennium, to allocate 
$19,500,000 for the construction of sound barriers on I 894, between 27th street and 
76th street, in Milwaukee County.
Contract cost threshold for gubernatorial approval
Under current law, DOT may enter into contracts for services. Certain 
contracts that exceed a specified cost threshold require the approval of the governor.  
The bill increases the cost threshold for the following contract types:
1. For engineering, consulting, surveying, or other specialized services, 
increased from $3,000 to $100,000.
2. For highway improvements, increased from $1,000 to $250,000.
3. For counties to perform highway improvements, increased from $5,000 to 
$100,000.
4. For performing portions of improvement work affecting railroads or 
utilities, increased from $5,000 to $100,000.
5. For prompt repair, protection, or preservation of state highways jeopardized 
by extraordinary conditions or emergency, increased from $10,000 to $100,000.
Requirements for local transportation projects
Under current law, for certain highway projects for which DOT spends federal 
money, federal money must make up at least 70 percent of the funding for those 
projects.  DOT is required to notify political subdivisions receiving aid for local 
projects whether the aid includes federal moneys and how those moneys must be 
spent.  For certain projects that receive no federal money, DOT may not require 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 191 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
political subdivisions to comply with any portion of DOT [s facilities development 
manual other than design standards.  Any local project funded with state funds 
under the surface transportation program or the local bridge program must be let 
through competitive bidding and by contract to the lowest responsible bidder.  The 
bill eliminates all of these requirements.
Traffic calming grants
Under the bill, DOT must develop and administer a local traffic calming grant 
program.  Under the program, DOT must award grants to political subdivisions for 
infrastructure projects designed to reduce the speed of vehicular traffic.
Mass transit aids
Under current law, DOT provides state aid payments to local public bodies in 
urban areas served by mass transit systems to assist the local public bodies with 
the expenses of operating those systems.  There are five classes of mass transit 
systems, and the total amount of state aid payments to four of these classes is 
limited to a specific amount in each calendar year.  The fifth class consists of certain 
commuter or light rail systems, and no state aid amounts are specified for this class. 
The bill modifies the criteria by which mass transit systems are placed into 
classes, modifying the threshold operating expenses for each class and updating the 
census by which population-based class distinctions are determined for two of the 
classes.
For the four classes of mass transit systems for which state aid amounts are 
specified, the bill does the following to the total amount limits:
1.  For mass transit systems having annual operating expenses of 
$100,000,000 or more, the bill maintains the current limit of $66,787,400 in 
calendar year 2025 and increases the limit to $69,458,900 in calendar year 2026 
and to $72,237,300 in calendar year 2027 and thereafter.
2.  For mass transit systems having annual operating expenses of more than 
$30,000,000 but less than $100,000,000, the bill maintains the current limit of 
$17,549,500 in calendar year 2025 and increases the limit to $18,251,500 in 
calendar year 2026 and to $18,981,600 in calendar year 2027 and thereafter.
3.  For mass transit systems serving urban areas having a population of at 
least 50,000 but having annual operating expenses of no more than $30,000,000, 
the bill maintains the current limit of $25,475,900 in calendar year 2025 and 
increases the limit to $26,494,900 in calendar year 2026 and to $27,554,700 in 
calendar year 2027 and thereafter.
4.  For mass transit systems serving urban areas having a population of less 
than 50,000, the bill maintains the current limit of $5,398,600 in calendar year 
2025 and increases the limit to $9,800,600 in calendar year 2026 and to 
$10,192,600 in calendar year 2027 and thereafter.
General transportation aids
Under current law, DOT administers a general transportation aids program 
that makes aid payments to a county based on a share-of-costs formula, and to a 
municipality based on the greater of a share-of-costs formula or an aid rate per 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 192 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
mile. The aid rate per mile is $2,734 for 2025.  The bill increases the aid rate per 
mile to $2,816 for 2026 and $2,901 for 2027 and thereafter.
Currently, the maximum annual amount of aid that may be paid to counties 
under the program is $132,276,700.  The bill maintains this amount for 2025 and 
increases this amount to $136,245,000 for 2026 and $140,332,400 for 2027 and 
thereafter.  Currently, the maximum annual amount of aid that may be paid to 
municipalities under the program is $415,116,200. The bill maintains this amount 
for 2025 and increases this amount to $427,569,700 for 2026 and $440,396,800 for 
2027 and thereafter.
Local road improvement program funding
Under current law, DOT administers the local roads improvement program 
(LRIP) to assist political subdivisions in improving seriously deteriorating local 
roads by reimbursing political subdivisions for certain improvements. LRIP has 
several components, including discretionary grants.  Current law specifies dollar 
amounts that DOT must allocate in each fiscal year to each of three project types 
that exceed specified cost thresholds:  1) county trunk highway improvements that 
exceed $250,000; 2) town road improvements that exceed $100,000; and 3) 
municipal street improvements that exceed $250,000.
The bill increases the amounts that DOT is required to allocate for 
discretionary grants for the three project types, as follows:
1.  Allocations for county trunk highway improvements are increased from 
$5,840,200 to $6,015,400 in fiscal year 2025 ]26 and $6,195,900 in fiscal year 
2026]27 and each fiscal year thereafter.
2.  Allocations for town road improvements are increased from $6,398,000 to 
$6,590,000 in fiscal year 2025 ]26 and $6,787,600 in fiscal year 2026 ]27 and each 
fiscal year thereafter.
3.  Allocations for municipal street improvements are increased from 
$4,166,900 to $4,291,900 in fiscal year 2025 ]26 and $4,420,700 in fiscal year 
2026]27 and each fiscal year thereafter.
In addition to the ongoing LRIP, onetime funding has previously been 
appropriated to provide supplemental grants to local governments for projects that 
are eligible for discretionary grants.  This funding was provided for fiscal year 
2019]20, with specified amounts required to be allocated between improvement 
projects on county trunk highways, town roads, and municipal streets. The bill 
provides that supplemental grants in fiscal year 2025 ]26 be allocated so that the 
total funding is distributed among the three project types at the same percentage 
that each group was allocated funding in fiscal year 2019 ]20.  The bill changes the 
funding source for these grants from the transportation fund to the general fund.
Local roads improvement grants to Ontario and DeForest
The bill requires DOT to provide local roads improvement program (LRIP) 
grants of $500,000 to the village of Ontario for residential street development and 
$6,000,000 to the village of DeForest for improvements to the I 39/CTH XVY 
interchange.  Under current law, DOT administers LRIP to assist political 
subdivisions in improving seriously deteriorating local roads by reimbursing 
political subdivisions for certain improvements.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 193 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Agricultural roads improvement program general fund appropriation
Under current law, DOT administers an agricultural roads improvement 
program (ARIP) under which DOT provides grants to political subdivisions for 
projects to improve certain highway facilities that facilitate access to agricultural 
lands.  Currently, a transportation fund appropriation funds the grants.  The bill 
adds a general fund appropriation to fund grants under the program.
Agricultural roads improvement program time limits
Currently, all grants under ARIP must be awarded by June 23, 2026, and only 
costs incurred by June 23, 2028, may be reimbursed.  These dates represent three 
years and five years, respectively, from the effective date of the bill creating ARIP.
The bill provides that any grants made from moneys appropriated in the 
2025]27 fiscal biennium must be awarded by three years from the effective date of 
the bill and only costs incurred by five years from the effective date of the bill may 
be reimbursed.
Local bridge and culvert improvements set-aside
The bill requires DOT to designate 10 percent of the moneys appropriated for 
LRIP discretionary supplemental grants and ARIP in the 2025 ]27 fiscal biennium 
for grants for improvements to certain local bridges or culverts identified as being 
in poor or worse condition.
County forest road aids
Under current law, DOT provides aid to counties for the improvement of public 
roads within county forests.  The current amount of aid is $351 per mile of county 
forest road.  The bill maintains the aid amount for calendar year 2025 and increases 
the aid amount, per mile of road, to $361 in calendar year 2026 and $373 in 
calendar year 2027 and each year thereafter.
Bonding authority for design-build program
Under current law, DOT administers the design-build project program, under 
which highway improvement project contracts are awarded to a single builder that 
designs, engineers, and constructs the project.  Under the program, DOT may fund 
state highway rehabilitation projects, major highway projects, or southeast 
Wisconsin freeway megaprojects.  The state is authorized to contract public debt in 
an amount up to $20,000,000 for the program.  The bill increases the authorized 
public debt for this purpose by $92,500,000, to $112,500,000.
I 94 east-west corridor bonding
Under current law, the state may contract up to $40,000,000 in public debt for 
reconstruction of the XI 94 east-west corridor, Y which is all freeways, including 
related interchange ramps, roadways, and shoulders, encompassing I 94 in 
Milwaukee County from 70th Street to 16th Street, and all adjacent frontage roads 
and collector road systems.  The bill increases the authorized general obligation 
bonding limit for this purpose by $185,171,300, to a total of $225,171,300.
Use of revenue bond proceeds for state highway rehabilitation
Under current law, the Building Commission may issue revenue bonds for 
certain major highway projects and transportation administrative facilities.  Also 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 194 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
under current law, state highway rehabilitation projects are funded from various 
sources, including bond proceeds, but not from proceeds of revenue bonds.  The bill 
provides that revenue bond proceeds may be expended for state highway 
rehabilitation projects.
Transportation revenue bonds
Under current law, the Building Commission may issue revenue bonds for 
major highway projects and transportation administrative facilities in a principal 
amount that may not exceed $4,325,885,700.  The bill increases the revenue bond 
limit to $4,644,920,800, an increase of $319,035,100.
DRIVERS  AND MOTOR  VEHICLES
Noncitizen driver [s licenses
Under 2007 Wisconsin Act 20, certain provisions specified in the federal 
REAL ID Act of 2005 (REAL ID) were incorporated into state law, and these 
provisions became effective on January 1, 2013.  Among these provisions was the 
requirement that DOT follow certain procedures in processing applications for 
driver[s licenses and identification cards.  However, under 2011 Wisconsin Acts 23 
and 32, DOT may process applications for driver [s licenses and identification cards 
in a manner other than that required by REAL ID if the driver [s licenses and 
identification cards are marked to indicate that they are not REAL ID compliant 
and DOT processes the applications in compliance with DOT practices and 
procedures applicable immediately prior to implementation of REAL ID.
Under current law, an applicant for a driver [s license or identification card, 
regardless of whether it is REAL ID compliant or REAL ID noncompliant, must 
provide to DOT 1) an identification document that includes either the applicant [s 
photograph or both the applicant [s full legal name and date of birth; 2) 
documentation, which may be the same as item 1, above, showing the applicant [s 
date of birth; 3) proof of the applicant [s social security number or verification that 
the applicant is not eligible for a social security number; 4) documentation showing 
the applicant [s name and address of principal residence; and 5) documentary proof 
that the applicant is a U.S. citizen or is otherwise lawfully present in the United 
States.  However, in processing an application for a REAL ID noncompliant driver [s 
license or identification card, DOT is not required to meet the standards for 
document retention and verification that are imposed for REAL ID compliant 
products.
Under the bill, an applicant for a REAL ID noncompliant driver [s license or 
identification card (noncompliant REAL ID) is not required to provide documentary 
proof that the applicant is a U.S. citizen or is otherwise lawfully present in the 
United States.  Also, an applicant may, in lieu of item 1 above, provide an individual 
taxpayer identification number, a foreign passport, or any other documentation 
deemed acceptable to DOT and, in lieu of items 2 and 4 above, provide 
documentation deemed acceptable to DOT.  If the applicant does not have a social 
security number, the applicant is required to provide verification only that he or she 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 195 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
does not have one, rather than verification that he or she is not eligible for one.  In 
processing an application for, and issuing or renewing, a noncompliant REAL ID, 
DOT may not include any question or require any proof or documentation as to 
whether the applicant is a U.S. citizen or is otherwise lawfully present in the 
United States.  The license document issued must display, on its face, the words 
XNot valid for voting purposes.  Not evidence of citizenship or immigration status. Y  
The bill does not change any current law requirements related to driver 
qualifications such as minimum age or successful completion of knowledge and 
driving skills tests.
With limited exceptions, DOT may not disclose social security numbers 
obtained from operator [s license or identification card applicants.  The bill prohibits 
DOT from disclosing the fact that an applicant has verified to DOT that the 
applicant does not have a social security number, except that DOT may disclose this 
information to the Elections Commission.
The bill also prohibits discrimination on the basis of a person [s status as a 
holder or a nonholder of a noncompliant REAL ID, adding this license status as a 
prohibited basis for discrimination in employment, housing, and the equal 
enjoyment of a public place of accommodation or amusement.
Authorizing special group plates
Under current law, members of certain designated special groups may obtain 
from DOT special registration plates for certain vehicles that are owned or leased by 
special group members.  A fee, in addition to the regular registration fee for the 
particular kind of vehicle, is charged for the issuance or reissuance of most special 
plates.
The bill establishes two special groups: persons wishing to have Xblackout Y 
registration plates and persons wishing to have XretroY registration plates.  The bill 
requires that plates issued to members of the Xblackout Y special group have a black 
background and white lettering displaying the word XWisconsin Y and the 
registration number assigned to the vehicle.  The bill requires that plates issued to 
members of the XretroY special group have a yellow background and black lettering 
displaying the words XAmerica [s Dairyland Y and XWisconsin Y and the registration 
number assigned to the vehicle.
The bill provides that, in addition to the required fees, special group members 
are required to make a voluntary payment of $25 to be issued the special plates.  
Under the bill, DOT retains $23,700, or the actual initial costs of production, 
whichever is less, from the voluntary payment moneys for the initial costs of 
production of the special plates.  The remainder of the voluntary payment amounts 
are deposited in the transportation fund.
Title fees increase
Under current law, the owner of a vehicle subject to registration must apply to 
DOT for a certificate of title for the vehicle when the person first acquires or 
registers the vehicle.  The bill increases from $157 to $277 the fees for a first 
certificate of title and a certificate of a title after transfer.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 196 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Operator license fee increase
Under current law, a person must pay DOT a specified fee for issuance, 
renewal, upgrading, and reinstatement of licenses, endorsements, and instruction 
permits.  The bill increases from $24 to $32.50 the fee for a license, other than a 
probationary license, for the operation of XClass DY motor vehicles.
Driver education grant program funding
Under current law, DOT administers a program to make grants to providers of 
driver education courses, and moneys are appropriated to DOT from the 
transportation fund for that purpose.  Under current law, moneys are appropriated 
to OCI for general program operations.  At the end of each fiscal year, the 
unencumbered balance in that appropriation account that exceeds 10 percent of the 
fiscal year [s expenditures from that appropriation account lapses to the general 
fund.
The bill modifies the DOT appropriation to be from the general fund, from the 
amounts lapsed from the OCI appropriation account, but not to exceed $6,000,000 
in a fiscal year.
RAIL AND AIR TRANSPORTATION
Attaching Office of the Commissioner of Railroads to DOT
The bill attaches the Office of the Commissioner of Railroads to DOT for 
administrative purposes.  Under current law, the office primarily regulates the 
safety of rail-highway crossings and is attached to PSC for administrative purposes.
Freight rail preservation bonding
Under current law, the state may contract up to $300,300,000 in public debt 
for DOT to acquire railroad property, provide grants and loans for railroad property 
acquisition and improvement, and provide intermodal freight facilities grants.  The 
bill increases the authorized general obligation bonding limit for these purposes by 
$5,000,000, to $305,300,000.
GENERAL  TRANSPORTATION
Regional transit authorities
The bill authorizes the creation of a regional transit authority (RTA) in any 
metropolitan statistical area in which qualifying political subdivisions agree to 
create one.  Upon creation, each regional transit authority is a public body corporate 
and politic and a separate governmental entity.
An RTA is created if any two or more political subdivisions located within a 
metropolitan statistical area adopt resolutions authorizing the political subdivision 
to become members of the RTA.  Once created, the members of an RTA consist of all 
political subdivisions that adopt resolutions authorizing participation.  Any 
political subdivision located in whole or in part within a metropolitan statistical 
area located in whole or in part within an RTA [s jurisdiction may join the RTA.  The 
jurisdictional area of an RTA created under the bill is the geographic area formed 
by the combined territorial boundaries of all participating political subdivisions.  A 
member political subdivision may withdraw from an RTA if the governing body of 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 197 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
the political subdivision adopts a resolution requesting withdrawal from the RTA 
and the political subdivision has paid, or made provision for the payment of, all 
obligations of the political subdivision to the RTA.
An RTA [s authority is vested in its board of directors.  Directors serve four-
year terms.  An RTA [s bylaws govern its management, operations, and 
administration and must include provisions specifying all of the following:
1.  The functions or services to be provided by the RTA.
2.  The powers, duties, and limitations of the RTA.
3.  The maximum rate of the sales and use tax, not exceeding the statutory 
limit, that may be imposed by the RTA.
An RTA may do all of the following:
1.  Establish or acquire a comprehensive unified local transportation system, 
which is a transportation system comprising bus lines and other public 
transportation facilities generally within the jurisdictional area of the RTA.  
XTransportation system Y is defined to include land, structures, equipment, and 
other property for transportation of passengers, including by bus, rail, or other form 
of mass transportation.  The RTA may operate this transportation system or 
provide for its operation by another.  The RTA may contract with a public or private 
organization to provide transportation services in lieu of directly providing these 
services and may purchase and lease transportation facilities to public or private 
transit companies.  With two exceptions, an RTA may not directly or by contract 
provide service outside the RTA [s jurisdictional area.
2.  Coordinate specialized transportation services for persons who are disabled 
or age 60 or older.
3.  Own or lease real or personal property.
4.  Acquire property by condemnation.
5.  Enter upon highways to install, maintain, and operate the RTA [s facilities.
6.  Impose, by the adoption of a resolution by the RTA [s board of directors, a 
sales and use tax in the RTA [s jurisdictional area at a rate of not more than 0.5 
percent of the sales price.
7.  Impose a fee of $2 per transaction on the rental of passenger cars without 
drivers.
8.  Incur debts and obligations.  An RTA may issue tax-exempt revenue bonds, 
secured by a pledge of any income or revenues from any operations or other source of 
moneys for the RTA.  The bonds of an RTA are not a debt of its member political 
subdivisions and neither the member political subdivisions nor the state are liable 
for the payment of the bonds.
9.  Set fees and charges for functions, facilities, and services provided by the 
RTA.
10.  Adopt bylaws and rules to carry out the powers and purposes of the RTA.
11.  Sue and be sued in its own name.
12.  Employ agents, consultants, and employees; engage professional services; 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 198 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
and purchase furniture, supplies, and materials reasonably necessary to perform 
its duties and exercise its powers.
13.  Invest funds not required for immediate disbursement.
14.  Do and perform any authorized acts by means of an agent or by contracts 
with any person.
15.  Exercise any other powers that the board of directors considers necessary 
and convenient to effectuate the purposes of the RTA, including providing for 
passenger safety.
The board of directors of an RTA must annually prepare a budget for the RTA. 
Rates and other charges received by the RTA may be used only for the general 
expenses and capital expenditures of the RTA, to pay interest, amortization, and 
retirement charges on the RTA [s revenue bonds, and for specific purposes of the 
RTA and may not be transferred to any political subdivision.  The RTA must 
maintain an accounting system in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles and must have its financial statements and debt covenants audited 
annually by an independent certified public accountant.
An RTA must provide, or contract for the provision of, transit service within 
the RTA [s jurisdictional area.  An RTA that acquires a transportation system for the 
purpose of operating the system must assume all of the employer [s obligations 
under any contract between the employees and management of the system to the 
extent allowed by law.  An RTA that acquires, constructs, or operates a 
transportation system must negotiate an agreement with the representative of the 
labor organization that covers the employees affected by the acquisition, 
construction, or operation to protect the interests of employees affected, and that 
agreement must include specified provisions.  Employees of the RTA are 
participatory employees under the Wisconsin Retirement System (WRS) if the RTA 
elects to join the WRS.
Current law provides limited immunity for cities, villages, towns, counties, 
and other political corporations and governmental subdivisions, and for officers, 
officials, agents, and employees of these entities, for acts done in an official capacity 
or in the course of employment.  Claimants must generally follow a specified claims 
procedure and liability for damages is generally limited to $50,000 except that no 
liability may be imposed for performance of a discretionary duty or for punitive 
damages.  If a person suffers damage resulting from the negligent operation of a 
motor vehicle owned and operated by a county, city, village, town, school district, 
sewer district, or other political subdivision of the state in the course of its business, 
the person may file a claim for damages following this claims procedure and the 
amount of damages recoverable is limited to $250,000.  The bill specifies that this 
provision related to claims and liability for negligent operation of a motor vehicle by 
a political subdivision applies to an RTA.
The bill also allows RTAs to participate in organizing municipal insurance 
mutuals to provide insurance and risk management services.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 199 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Transit capital assistance grants
The bill requires DOT to establish a transit capital assistance grant program, 
under which DOT awards grants to eligible applicants for the replacement of public 
transit vehicles.
Certification grants under the transportation infrastructure loan program
Under current law, DOT administers a transportation infrastructure loan 
program.  Under the program, DOT provides loans and other assistance to eligible 
applicants for highway and transit capital projects.  When loans under the program 
are repaid, the moneys are again made available for loan or other assistance under 
the program.
The bill specifies that, if DOT finds that special circumstances exist, DOT may 
award a grant to an eligible applicant under the program for the purpose of 
engaging a certified public accountant to make any certifications or attestations 
required by DOT as a condition of receiving a loan or other assistance under the 
program.
Determination of grant ceiling for TEA grants
Under current law, DOT administers a transportation facilities economic 
assistance and development program (TEA). Under TEA, DOT may improve a 
highway, airport, or harbor, or provide other assistance for the improvement of such 
transportation facilities or certain rail property or railroad tracks, as part of an 
economic development project.  DOT may also make loans for the improvement of 
any of these transportation facilities.  The state share of costs for the improvement 
of any transportation facility (grant ceiling) may generally not exceed the lesser of 
50 percent of the cost of the improvement or $5,000 for each job resulting from the 
improvement or the economic development project.
The bill increases the dollar amount for each job resulting from the 
improvement or project used in calculating the grant ceiling to $15,000.
Auto parts and repair transfer to the transportation fund
The bill requires a transfer from the general fund to the transportation fund in 
each fiscal year, beginning on June 30, 2025.  The amount of the transfer must be 
equal to the marginal difference between the sales tax generated from the sale of 
automotive parts, accessories, tires, and repair and maintenance services in fiscal 
year 2019-20 and the fiscal year of the transfer, as calculated by DOA.
Transfer from forestry account to transportation fund
The bill transfers $25,000,000 from the forestry account of the conservation 
fund to the transportation fund.
Harbor assistance program priority
Under current law, DOT administers the harbor assistance program under 
which it makes grants to reimburse eligible applicants for the cost of making harbor 
improvements.  DOT is authorized to establish criteria for eligible applicants and 
projects and is required to prioritize projects based on the amount of tonnage and 
waterborne transportation handled in the harbor.  The bill requires DOT, in the 2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 200 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
2025]27 fiscal biennium, to prioritize program grants to municipalities in which a 
shipbuilder in this state is conducting operations.
Harbor assistance bonding authorization
Under current law, the state may contract up to $167,300,000 in public debt 
for DOT to provide local grants for harbor assistance and for harbor improvements 
such as dock wall repair and maintenance, construction of new dock walls, dredging 
of materials from a harbor, or the placement of dredged materials in containment 
facilities.  The bill increases the authorized general obligation bonding limit for 
these purposes by $30,000,000, to $197,300,000.
City of Sheboygan harbor assistance grant
The bill requires DOT to award a harbor assistance grant of $3,000,000 to the 
city of Sheboygan for the construction of an educational facility at the Harbor 
Centre Marina.
Ignition interlock device requirement expansion
Under current law, if a person is convicted of a second or subsequent offense 
related to operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of an intoxicant or 
other drug, with a prohibited alcohol concentration, or with a measurable amount 
of a controlled substance in his or her blood (OWI offense), or a first OWI offense for 
which his or her alcohol concentration is 0.15 or greater, a court must order the 
person[s operating privilege restricted to operating vehicles that are equipped with 
an ignition interlock device.  The bill expands the ignition interlock requirement to 
all OWI offenses that involve the use of alcohol.
VETERANS
Veterans assistance
Under current law, DVA administers the assistance to needy veterans grant 
program, which provides subsistence aid and health care aid to veterans.  Under 
the program, DVA may provide up to $3,000 in subsistence aid per 12-month period 
to veterans who have suffered a loss of income due to illness, injury, or natural 
disaster.  Under the program, DVA may also provide aid payments to a veteran to 
pay for dental care, hearing care, and vision care.  The total lifetime limit that a 
veteran may receive in aid under the program is $7,500.
The bill expands the program by allowing DVA to provide subsistence aid 
payments, in an amount of up to $5,000 per 12-month period, to a veteran who has 
suffered a loss of income for any reason and allows DVA to provide health care aid 
payments to pay for any medical device prescribed by a licensed health care 
provider.  The bill also raises the total lifetime limit that a veteran may receive in 
aid under the program to $10,000.
Veterans [ mental health services
The bill requires DVA to promote and assist veterans [ access to, and provide 
grants to organizations that provide to veterans, community-based and emergency 
crisis mental health services.  The bill gives DVA authority to promulgate 
emergency rules to administer the requirements of the bill.2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 201 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
Transfer of funds
The bill transfers from the general fund to the DVA appropriation used for the 
institutional operations of veterans homes $7,100,000 in fiscal year 2025 ]26 and 
$14,800,000 in fiscal year 2026 ]27.
Hmong and Laotian veterans
The bill expands the definition of XveteranY to include both 1) a person who 
resides in this state who was naturalized pursuant to the federal Hmong Veterans [ 
Naturalization Act of 2000, and 2) a person who resides in this state who the 
secretary of veterans affairs has determined served honorably with a special 
guerrilla unit or irregular forces operating from a base in Laos in support of the 
armed forces of the United States at any time during the period from February 28, 
1961, to September 18, 1978, and who is a citizen of the United States or a lawful 
permanent resident of the United States.  The bill extends most veterans benefits to 
anyone who meets this newly expanded definition of veteran; however, admission to 
a state veterans home and burial in a veterans cemetery are not included benefits 
as they are subject to federal regulation.
Veterans service officer grants
The bill increases the dollar amount of veteran service officer grants made to 
counties and governing bodies of federally recognized American Indian tribes and 
bands.
Under current law, DVA is required to annually award a grant to a county that 
employs a certain elected or appointed county veterans service officer.  The grant is 
awarded for the purpose of improving a county [s services to veterans and varies in 
amount depending on the county [s population.  A county that employs a part-time 
county veterans service officer is eligible to receive an annual grant not exceeding 
$550.  DVA may also make annual grants to the governing body of a federally 
recognized American Indian tribe or band if the tribal governing body appoints a 
tribal veterans service officer and enters into an agreement with DVA regarding 
the creation, goals, and objectives of the tribal veterans service officer position.
The bill increases the dollar amount of the veterans service officer grants 
awarded to counties in the following ways:  1) for counties with a population of less 
than 20,000, the grant is increased from $11,688 to $12,300; 2) for counties with a 
population of 20,000 to 45,499, the grant is increased from $13,750 to $14,400; 3) for 
counties with a population of 45,500 to 74,999, the grant is increased from $15,813 
to $16,600; and 4) for counties with a population of 75,000 or more, the grant is 
increased from $17,875 to $18,800.  The bill also increases the dollar amount of the 
grant awarded to tribal governing bodies from $20,625 to $21,700.  In addition, the 
bill eliminates the restriction on a grant for a county employing a part-time county 
veterans services officer.
Funding increase for the operation of Camp American Legion
Under current law, DVA may annually grant up to $75,000 to the Wisconsin 
department of the American Legion for the operation of Camp American Legion.  2025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 202 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
The bill increases the amount DVA may grant for the operation of Camp American 
Legion to up to $100,000.
Because this bill relates to an exemption from state or local taxes, it may be 
referred to the Joint Survey Committee on Tax Exemptions for a report to be 
printed as an appendix to the bill.
Because this bill relates to public employee retirement or pensions, it may be 
referred to the Joint Survey Committee on Retirement Systems for a report to be 
printed as an appendix to the bill.
Because this bill creates a new crime or revises a penalty for an existing crime, 
the Joint Review Committee on Criminal Penalties may be requested to prepare a 
report.
Because the bill may increase or decrease, directly or indirectly, the cost of the 
development, construction, financing, purchasing, sale, ownership, or availability of 
housing in this state, the Department of Administration, as required by law, will 
prepare a report to be printed as an appendix to this bill.
This proposal may contain a health insurance mandate requiring a social and 
financial impact report under s. 601.423, stats.
For further information see the state and local fiscal estimate, which will be 
printed as an appendix to this bill.
The people of the state of Wisconsin, represented in senate and assembly, do 
enact as follows:
SECTION  1.  1.031 of the statutes is amended to read:
1.031   Retrocession of jurisdiction.   The governor may accept on behalf of 
the state, retrocession of full or partial jurisdiction over any roads, highways or 
other lands in federal enclaves within the state where such retrocession has been 
offered by appropriate federal authority.  Documents concerning such action shall 
be filed in the office of the secretary of state administration and recorded in the 
office of the register of deeds of the county wherein such lands are located.
SECTION  2.  5.02 (6m) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
5.02 (6m)  (f)  An unexpired identification card issued by a university or college 
in this state that is accredited, as defined in s. 39.30 (1) (d), or by a technical college 
in this state that is a member of and governed by the technical college system under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
112025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 203 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2
ch. 38, that contains the date of issuance and signature of the individual to whom it 
is issued and that contains an expiration date indicating that the card expires no 
later than 2 years after the date of issuance if the individual establishes, except 
that, if the identification card is expired, the individual shall establish that he or 
she is enrolled as a student at the university or college on the date that the card is 
presented.
SECTION  3.  5.02 (20) of the statutes is amended to read:
5.02 (20)  XSpecial primary Y means the primary held 4 weeks before the 
special election, except as provided in s. 8.50 (4m) and except, when the special 
election is held on the same day as the general election, the special primary shall be 
held on the same day as the general primary or, if the special election is held 
concurrently with the spring election, the primary shall be held concurrently with 
the spring primary.
SECTION  4.  5.02 (22) of the statutes is amended to read:
5.02 (22)  XSpring primary Y means the nonpartisan primary held on the 3rd 
Tuesday in February to nominate nonpartisan candidates to be voted for at the 
spring election and partisan candidates to be voted for at a special election under s. 
8.50 (4m).
SECTION  5.  5.05 (11m) of the statutes is created to read:
5.05 (11m)  AIDS TO COUNTIES  AND MUNICIPALITIES  FOR CERTAIN  SPECIAL  
ELECTION  COSTS .  (a)  From the appropriation under s. 20.510 (1) (f), the commission 
shall reimburse counties and municipalities for costs incurred in the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 204 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  5
administration of special primaries for state or national office and special elections 
for state or national office.
(b)  A cost is eligible for reimbursement under par. (a) only if all of the 
following apply:
1.  The commission determines that the cost is reasonable.
2.  The cost is specified under par. (c).
3.  If applicable, the commission determines that the rate paid by the county or 
municipality for the cost does not exceed the rate customarily paid for similar costs 
at a primary or election that is not a special primary or election.
4.  If the special primary or election coincides with a primary or election that 
is not a special primary or election, the commission determines that the cost does 
not exceed the amount that would be incurred if the primaries or elections did not 
coincide.
(c)  Only the following costs are eligible for reimbursement under par. (a):
1.  Rental payments for polling places.
2.  Election day wages paid under s. 7.03 to election officials working at the 
polls.
3.  Costs for the publication of required election notices.
4.  Printing and postage costs for absentee ballots and envelopes.
5.  Costs for the design and printing of ballots and poll books.
6.  Purchase of ballot bags or containers, including ties or seals for chain of 
custody purposes.
7.  Costs to program electronic voting machines.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 205 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  5
8.  Purchase of memory devices for electronic voting machines.
9.  Wages paid to conduct a county canvass.
10.  Data entry costs for the statewide voter registration system.
SECTION  6.  5.05 (19) of the statutes is created to read:
5.05 (19)  N ON-ENGLISH  LANGUAGE  SAMPLE  BALLOTS .  If any jurisdiction 
provides voting materials in one or more languages other than English, the 
commission shall post on its website the sample ballots for that jurisdiction in each 
such language.
SECTION  7.  5.053 of the statutes is created to read:
5.053   Office of election transparency and compliance.   (1)  DEFINITION .  
In this section, XofficeY means the office of election transparency and compliance.
(2)  DUTIES .  The office shall do all of the following:
(a)  As directed by the commission by resolution, perform research and assist 
the commission [s legal staff in presenting information to the members of the 
commission concerning any of the following:
1.  Sworn complaints of election law violations filed under s. 5.05 (2m), 
including allegations that a person provided false or misleading information to an 
election official during the registration or voting process.
2.  Sworn complaints filed under s. 5.06 alleging noncompliance of election 
officials.
(b)  As directed by the administrator, provide assistance and research to the 
commission concerning the following:
1.  Procedures at polling places.
2.  Election processes.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 206 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  7
3.  Election systems and equipment, including with respect to accessibility 
requirements for individuals with disabilities.
4.  Responding to public records requests submitted under s. 19.35.
5.  Responding to inquiries and requests for assistance made by a member, 
committee, or house of the state legislature.
6.  Responding to inquiries from the public.
SECTION  8.  5.056 of the statutes is amended to read:
5.056   Matching program with secretary of transportation.   The 
commission administrator shall enter into the agreement with the secretary of 
transportation specified under s. 85.61 (1) to match personally identifiable 
information on the official registration list maintained by the commission under s. 
6.36 (1) and the information specified in s. ss. 6.256 (2) and 6.34 (2m) with 
personally identifiable information maintained by the department of 
transportation.  Subject to s. 343.14 (2p) (b), the agreement shall provide for the 
electronic transfer of information under s. 6.256 (2) to the commission on a 
continuous basis, no less often than weekly.
SECTION  9.  5.35 (6) (a) 4c. of the statutes is created to read:
5.35 (6) (a) 4c.  A voter bill of rights in substantially the following form:
VOTER  BILL OF RIGHTS
You have the following rights:
)  The right to vote if you are registered and eligible to vote.   You are 
eligible to vote if you (1) are a U.S. citizen, (2) are at least 18 years old, (3) are 
registered where you currently live, (4) are not currently serving any portion of a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 207 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9
felony sentence, including probation or supervision, (5) are not currently found 
mentally incompetent to vote by a court, and (6) have not placed a bet or a wager on 
the outcome of the election.
)  The right to inspect a sample ballot before voting.
)  The right to cast a ballot if you are in line when your polling place 
closes or when your municipal clerk [s office closes if you are voting by in-person 
absentee ballot on the last day for which such voting is allowed.
)  The right to cast a secret ballot , without anyone bothering you or telling 
you how to vote.
)  If you have a disability, the right to get help casting your ballot  from 
anyone you choose, except from your employer or union representative.
)  The right to get help voting in a language other than English if 
enough voters where you live speak your language.
)  The right to get a new ballot if you made a mistake.   You can get up to 
3 ballots in all if you make a mistake and have not already cast your ballot.
)  The right to cast a provisional ballot.   You are entitled to cast a 
provisional ballot if, when registering to vote on election day,  you cannot or will not 
provide required proof of identification for voting or a valid driver [s license or 
identification card number or, while already registered to vote, you cannot or will 
not provide required proof of identification for voting.  Your provisional ballot will 
be counted only if you provide the required information or proof of identification to 
the poll workers by 8:00 p.m. on election day or to the municipal clerk by 4:00 p.m. 
on the Friday following the election.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 208 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9
)  The right to have your ballot counted accurately.
)  The right to vote free from coercion or intimidation by any election 
official or other person.
)  The right to report any illegal or fraudulent election activity  to an 
elections official or the State of Wisconsin Elections Commission.
SECTION  10.  5.45 of the statutes is created to read:
5.45  Election administration grants.   From the appropriation under s. 
20.510 (1) (bp), the commission shall award grants to municipalities for election 
administration expenses.
SECTION  11.  5.84 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
5.84 (1)  Where any municipality employs an electronic voting system which 
utilizes automatic tabulating equipment, either at the polling place or at a central 
counting location, the municipal clerk shall, on any day not more than 10 days prior 
to the election day on which the equipment is to be utilized in an election, have the 
equipment tested to ascertain that it will correctly count the votes cast for all offices 
and on all measures.  Public notice of the time and place of the test shall be given by 
the clerk at least 48 hours prior to the test by publication of a class 1 notice under 
ch. 985 in one or more newspapers published within the municipality if a 
newspaper is published therein, otherwise in a newspaper of general circulation 
therein.  The test shall be open to the public.  The test shall be conducted by 
processing a preaudited group of ballots so marked as to record a predetermined 
number of valid votes for each candidate and on each referendum.  The test shall 
include for each office one or more ballots which have votes in excess of the number 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 209 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  11
allowed by law and, for a partisan primary election, one or more ballots which have 
votes cast for candidates of more than one recognized political party, in order to test 
the ability of the automatic tabulating equipment to reject such votes.  If any error 
is detected, the municipal clerk shall ascertain the cause and correct the error.  The 
clerk shall make an errorless count before the automatic tabulating equipment is 
approved by the clerk for use in the election.
SECTION  12.  5.86 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
5.86 (1)  All proceedings at each central counting location shall be under the 
direction of the municipal clerk or an election official designated by the clerk unless 
the central counting location is at the county seat and the municipal clerk delegates 
the responsibility to supervise the location to the county clerk, in which case the 
proceedings shall be under the direction of the county clerk or an election official 
designated by the county clerk.  If for any municipality the central counting location 
is at the county seat and the municipal clerk authorizes the early canvassing of 
absentee ballots under s. 7.525, the county clerk or the county clerk [s designee shall 
begin the proceedings for that municipality on the day before the election consistent 
with that section.  Unless election officials are selected under s. 7.30 (4) (c) without 
regard to party affiliation, the employees at each central counting location, other 
than any specially trained technicians who are required for the operation of the 
automatic tabulating equipment, shall be equally divided between members of the 
2 major political parties under s. 7.30 (2) (a) and all duties performed by the 
employees shall be by teams consisting of an equal number of members of each 
political party whenever sufficient persons from each party are available.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 210 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  13
SECTION  13.  6.02 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.02 (1)  Every U.S. citizen age 18 or older who has resided in an election 
district or ward for 28 10 consecutive days before any election where the citizen 
offers to vote is an eligible elector.
SECTION  14.  6.02 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.02 (2)  Any U.S. citizen age 18 or older who moves within this state later 
than 28 10 days before an election shall vote at his or her previous ward or election 
district if the person is otherwise qualified.  If the elector can comply with the 28-
day 10-day residence requirement at the new address and is otherwise qualified, he 
or she may vote in the new ward or election district.
SECTION  15.  6.10 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.10 (3)  When an elector moves his or her residence from one ward or 
municipality to another ward or municipality within the state at least 28 10 days 
before the election, the elector may vote in and be considered a resident of the new 
ward or municipality where residing upon registering at the proper polling place or 
other registration location in the new ward or municipality under s. 6.55 (2) or 6.86 
(3) (a) 2.  If the elector moves his or her residence later than 28 10 days before an 
election, the elector shall vote in the elector [s former ward or municipality if 
otherwise qualified to vote there.
SECTION  16.  6.10 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.10 (4)  The residence of an unmarried person sleeping in one ward and 
boarding in another is the place where the person sleeps.  The residence of an 
unmarried person in a transient vocation, a teacher or a student who boards at 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 211 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  16
different places for part of the week, month, or year, if one of the places is the 
residence of the person [s parents, is the place of the parents [ residence unless 
through registration or similar act the person elects to establish a residence 
elsewhere.  If the person has no parents and if the person has not registered 
elsewhere, the person [s residence shall be at the place that the person considered 
his or her residence in preference to any other for at least 28 10 consecutive days 
before an election.  If this place is within the municipality, the person is entitled to 
all the privileges and subject to all the duties of other citizens having their 
residence there, including voting.
SECTION  17.  6.15 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.15 (1)  QUALIFICATIONS .  Any person who was or who is an eligible elector 
under ss. 6.02 and 6.03, except that he or she has been a resident of this state for 
less than 28 10 consecutive days prior to the date of the presidential election, is 
entitled to vote for the president and vice president but for no other offices.  The fact 
that the person was not registered to vote in the state from which he or she moved 
does not prevent voting in this state if the elector is otherwise qualified.
SECTION  18.  6.15 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.15 (2) (a)  The elector [s request for the application form may be made in 
person to the municipal clerk of the municipality where the person resides.  
Application may be made not sooner than 27 9 days nor later than 5 p.m. on the day 
before the election, or may be made at the proper polling place in the ward or 
election district in which the elector resides.  If an elector makes application before 
election day, the application form shall be returned to the municipal clerk after the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 212 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  18
affidavit has been signed in the presence of the clerk or any officer authorized by 
law to administer oaths.  The affidavit shall be in substantially the following form:
STATE OF WISCONSIN
County of ....
I, ...., do solemnly swear that I am a citizen of the United States; that prior to 
establishing Wisconsin residence, my legal residence was in the .... (town) (village) 
(city) of ...., state of ...., residing at .... (street address); that on the day of the next 
presidential election, I shall be at least 18 years of age and that I have been a legal 
resident of the state of Wisconsin since ...., .... (year), residing at .... (street address), 
in the [.... ward of the .... aldermanic district of] the (town) (village) (city) of ...., 
county of ....; that I have resided in the state less than 28 10 consecutive days, that 
I am qualified to vote for president and vice president at the election to be held 
November ...., .... (year), that I am not voting at any other place in this election and 
that I hereby make application for an official presidential ballot, in accordance with 
section 6.15 of the Wisconsin statutes.
Signed ....
P.O. Address ....
Subscribed and sworn to before me this .... day of ...., .... (year)
....(Name)
....(Title)
SECTION  19.  6.15 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.15 (4) (b)  During polling hours, or between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. on the day 
before the election if authorized for that election under s. 7.525, the inspectors shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 213 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  19
open each carrier envelope, announce the elector [s name, check the affidavit for 
proper execution, and check the voting qualifications for the ward, if any.  In 
municipalities where absentee ballots are canvassed under s. 7.52, the municipal 
board of absentee ballot canvassers shall perform this function at a meeting of the 
board of absentee ballot canvassers.
SECTION  20.  6.18 (form) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.18 (form)  This form shall be returned to the municipal clerk [s office.  
Application must be received in sufficient time for ballots to be mailed and returned 
prior to any presidential election at which applicant wishes to vote.  Complete all 
statements in full.
APPLICATION FOR PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTOR [S ABSENTEE BALLOT
(To be voted at the Presidential Election
on November ...., .... (year)
I, .... hereby swear or affirm that I am a citizen of the United States, formerly 
residing at .... in the .... ward .... aldermanic district (city, town, village) of ...., 
County of .... for 28 10 consecutive days prior to leaving the State of Wisconsin.  I, .... 
do solemnly swear or affirm that I do not qualify to register or vote under the laws 
of the State of ....(State you now reside in) where I am presently residing.  A citizen 
must be a resident of:  State ....(Insert time) County ....(Insert time) City, Town or 
Village ....(Insert time), in order to be eligible to register or vote therein.  I further 
swear or affirm that my legal residence was established in the State of ....(the State 
where you now reside) on .... Month .... Day .... Year.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 214 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  20
Signed ....
Address ....(Present address)
....(City) ....(State)
Subscribed and sworn to before me this .... day of .... .... (year)
....(Notary Public, or other officer authorized to administer oaths.)
....(County)
My Commission expires
MAIL BALLOT TO:
NAME ....
ADDRESS ....
CITY .... STATE .... ZIP CODE ....
Penalties for Violations.   Whoever swears falsely to any absent elector affidavit 
under this section may be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more 
than 6 months or both.  Whoever intentionally votes more than once in an election 
may be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than 3 years and 6 
months or both.
....(Municipal Clerk)
....(Municipality)
SECTION  21.  6.22 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.22 (7)  EXTENSION  OF PRIVILEGE .  This section applies to all military electors 
for 28 10 days after the date of discharge from a uniformed service or termination of 
services or employment of individuals specified in sub. (1) (b) 1. to 4.
SECTION  22.  6.256 of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 215 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  22
6.256   Facilitating registration of electors.   (1)  The commission shall use 
all feasible means to facilitate the registration of all eligible electors of this state 
and the maintenance of the registration of all eligible electors for so long as they 
remain eligible.
(2)  Subject to s. 343.14 (2p) (b), for the purpose of carrying out its functions 
under sub. (1), the commission shall obtain the following information from the 
department of transportation, to the extent that the department has the 
information:
(a)  The full name of each individual who holds a current operator [s license 
issued to the individual under ch. 343 or a current identification card issued to the 
individual under s. 343.50, together with the following information pertaining to 
that individual:
1.  The current address of the individual together with any address history 
and any name history maintained by the department of transportation.
2.  The date of birth of the individual.
3.  The number of the license or identification card issued to the individual.
4.  A copy of each document that the applicant provided as proof of citizenship 
and a statement from the department of transportation indicating that the 
department verified the applicant [s citizenship.
(b)  For each item of information specified in par. (a), the most recent date that 
the item of information was provided to or obtained by the department of 
transportation.
(3)  The commission shall compare the information obtained under sub. (2) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 216 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  22
with the information in the registration list under s. 6.36 (1) (a).  If the commission 
finds any discrepancy between the information obtained under sub. (2) regarding 
an elector and the information in the registration list under s. 6.36 (1) (a) regarding 
that elector, the commission shall attempt to contact the elector to resolve the 
discrepancy and update the registration list accordingly.  If the commission is 
unable to resolve the discrepancy, the information in the registration list shall 
control.
(4)  If the commission concludes that an individual appears eligible to vote in 
this state but is not registered and the commission has obtained from reliable 
sources all the information required under s. 6.33 (1) to complete the individual [s 
registration, the commission shall enter the individual [s name on the registration 
list maintained under s. 6.36 (1) (a).  If the commission has not obtained from 
reliable sources all the information pertaining to an individual that is required 
under s. 6.33 (1), the commission shall attempt to obtain from reliable sources the 
necessary information under s. 6.33 (1) that is required to complete the individual [s 
registration.  If an elector [s status has been changed from eligible to ineligible under 
s. 6.50 and the elector [s eligibility, name, or residence has not changed, the 
commission may not change the individual [s name to eligible status unless the 
commission first verifies that the individual is eligible and wishes to change his or 
her status to eligible.
(5)  The commission shall attempt to contact an individual described in sub. 
(4) if necessary to obtain all the information specified in s. 6.33 (1) pertaining to the 
individual that is required to complete the individual [s registration.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 217 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  22
(6)  The commission shall mail a notice to each individual whose name the 
commission enters under sub. (4) on the registration list maintained under s. 6.36 
(1) (a).  The notice shall be printed in English, Spanish, and other languages spoken 
by a significant number of state residents, as determined by the commission, and 
shall include all of the following:
(a)  A statement informing the individual that his or her name has been 
entered on the registration list and showing the current address for the individual 
based on the commission [s records.
(b)  A statement informing the individual that he or she may request to have 
his or her name deleted from the registration list and instructions for doing so.
(c)  Instructions for notifying the commission of a change in name or address.
(d)  Instructions for obtaining a confidential listing under s. 6.47 (2) and a 
description of how an individual qualifies for a confidential listing.
(7)  Any individual may file a request with the commission to exclude his or 
her name from the registration list maintained under s. 6.36 (1) (a).  Any individual 
whose name is added to the registration list by the commission may file a request 
with the commission or a municipal clerk to have his or her name deleted from the 
list.  A request for exclusion or deletion shall be filed in the manner prescribed by 
the commission.  An individual who files an exclusion or deletion request under this 
subsection may revoke his or her request by the same means that an individual may 
request an exclusion or deletion.  The commission shall ensure that the name of any 
individual who has filed an exclusion or deletion request under this subsection is 
excluded from the registration list or, if the individual [s name appears on the list, is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 218 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  22
removed from the registration list and is not added to the list at any subsequent 
time unless the individual files a revocation of his or her request under this 
subsection.
(8)  If the commission removes from the registration list maintained under s. 
6.36 (1) (a) the name of an elector who does not request that his or her name be 
deleted, or changes the elector [s status from eligible to ineligible, other than to 
correct an entry that the commission determines to be a duplication or to change 
the name of an individual who is verified to be deceased to ineligible status, the 
commission shall mail the individual a notice of the removal or change in status by 
1st class postcard at the individual [s last-known address.  The notice shall provide 
that the individual may apply to have his or her status changed to eligible if he or 
she is a qualified elector.
(9)  The commission shall attempt to facilitate the initial registration of all 
eligible electors as soon as practicable.
(10)  The commission shall maintain the confidentiality of all information 
obtained from the department of transportation under sub. (2) and may use this 
information only for the purpose of carrying out its functions under sub. (1) and s. 
6.34 (2m) and in accordance with the agreement under s. 85.61 (1).
SECTION  23.  6.28 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.28 (1) (b)  All applications for registration corrections and additions may be 
made throughout the year at the office of the city board of election commissioners, 
at the office of the municipal clerk, at the office of the county clerk, or at other 
locations provided by the board of election commissioners or the common council in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 219 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  23
cities over 500,000 population or by either or both the municipal clerk, or the 
common council, village or town board in all other municipalities, and may be made 
during the school year at any public high school by high school staff members and 
qualified students under sub. (2m).  An elector who wishes to obtain a confidential 
listing under s. 6.47 (2) shall register at the office of the municipal clerk of the 
municipality where the elector resides.
SECTION  24.  6.28 (2m) of the statutes is created to read:
6.28 (2m)  AT HIGH  SCHOOLS .  (a)  Public high schools shall be used for 
registration for enrolled students and members of the high school staff.
(b)  The municipal clerk of each municipality shall notify the school board of 
each school district in which the municipality is located that high schools shall be 
used for registration pursuant to par. (a).  The school board and the municipal clerk 
shall agree upon the appointment of at least one qualified elector at each high 
school as a special school registration deputy.  The municipal clerk shall appoint 
such person as a school registration deputy and explain the person [s duties and 
responsibilities.  Students and staff may register at the high school on any day that 
classes are regularly held.  The school registration deputies shall promptly forward 
properly completed registration forms to the municipal clerk of the municipality in 
which the registering student or staff member resides.  The municipal clerk, upon 
receiving such registration forms, shall add all those registering electors who have 
met the registration requirements to the registration list.  The municipal clerk may 
reject any registration form and shall promptly notify the person whose registration 
is rejected of the rejection and the reason therefor.  A person whose registration is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 220 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  24
rejected may reapply for registration if he or she is qualified.  The form of each high 
school student who is qualified and will be eligible to vote at the next election shall 
be filed in such a way that when a student attains the age of 18 years the student is 
registered to vote automatically.  Each school board shall ensure that the principal 
of every high school communicates elector registration information to students.
(c)  The principal of any private high school or of any tribal school, as defined 
in s. 115.001 (15m), that operates high school grades that has a substantial number 
of students residing in a municipality may request the municipal clerk to appoint a 
special school registration deputy.  If the clerk appoints such a deputy, students and 
staff may register at the high school on any day that classes are regularly held, in 
the manner provided under par. (b).  The clerk shall appoint a special school 
registration deputy in the high school if the clerk determines the school to have a 
substantial number of students residing in the municipality.
SECTION  25.  6.29 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.29 (2) (a)  Any qualified elector of a municipality who has not previously 
filed a registration form or whose name does not appear on the registration list of 
the municipality may register after the close of registration but not later than 5 
p.m. or the close of business, whichever is later, on the Friday before an election at 
the office of the municipal clerk and at the office of the clerk [s agent if the clerk 
delegates responsibility for electronic maintenance of the registration list to an 
agent under s. 6.33 (5) (b).  The elector shall complete, in the manner provided 
under s. 6.33 (2), a registration form containing all information required under s. 
6.33 (1).  The registration form shall also contain the following certification: XI, ...., 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 221 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  25
hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, I am a qualified elector, having 
resided at ... for at least 28 10 consecutive days immediately preceding this election, 
and I have not voted at this election Y.  The elector shall also provide proof of 
residence under s. 6.34.
SECTION  26.  6.29 (2) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
6.29 (2) (e)  The municipal clerk or clerk [s agent shall promptly add the names 
of qualified electors who register and vote under this section to the registration list 
maintained under s. 6.36 (1) (a).  The clerk or clerk [s agent shall add the names of 
qualified electors who vote at their polling places in the manner prescribed in s. 
6.33 (5) (a).
SECTION  27.  6.33 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.33 (2) (a)  All information may be recorded by any person, except that the 
clerk shall record the ward and aldermanic district, if any, other geographic 
information under sub. (1), the indication of whether the registration is received by 
mail, and the type of identifying document submitted by the elector as proof of 
residence under s. 6.34 or the indication of verification of information in lieu of 
proof of residence under s. 6.34 (2m).  Except as provided in s. 6.30 (5), each elector 
shall sign his or her own name unless the elector is unable to sign his or her name 
due to physical disability.  In such case, the elector may authorize another elector to 
sign the form on his or her behalf.  If the elector so authorizes, the elector signing 
the form shall attest to a statement that the application is made upon request and 
by authorization of a named elector who is unable to sign the form due to physical 
disability.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 222 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  28
SECTION  28.  6.35 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.35 (3)  Original Except for electronic registrations, original registration 
forms shall be maintained in the office of the municipal clerk or board of election 
commissioners at all times.  The commission shall maintain records of registrations 
that are entered electronically under s. 6.30 (5) and make such records available for 
inspection by the municipal clerk, the clerk [s designated agent, or the board of 
election commissioners.
SECTION  29.  6.55 (2) (a) (form) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.55 (2) (a) (form)  XI, ...., hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, I am 
a qualified elector, having resided at .... for at least 28 10 consecutive days 
immediately preceding this election, and I have not voted at this election. Y
SECTION  30.  6.85 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.85 (2)  Any otherwise qualified elector who changes residence within this 
state by moving to a different ward or municipality later than 28 10 days prior to an 
election may vote an absentee ballot in the ward or municipality where he or she 
was qualified to vote before moving.
SECTION  31.  6.86 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.86 (1) (b)  Except as provided in this section, if application is made by mail, 
the application shall be received no later than 5 p.m. on the 5th day immediately 
preceding the election.  If application is made in person, the application shall be 
made no earlier than 14 days preceding the election and no later than the Sunday 
preceding the election.  No application may be received on a legal holiday.  A 
municipality shall specify the hours in the notice under s. 10.01 (2) (e).  The 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 223 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  31
municipal clerk or an election official shall witness the certificate for any in-person 
absentee ballot cast.  Except as provided in par. (c), if the elector is making written 
application for an absentee ballot at the partisan primary, the general election, the 
presidential preference primary, or a special election for national office, and the 
application indicates that the elector is a military elector, as defined in s. 6.34 (1), 
the application shall be received by the municipal clerk no later than 5 p.m. on 
election day.  If the application indicates that the reason for requesting an absentee 
ballot is that the elector is a sequestered juror, the application shall be received no 
later than 5 p.m. on election day.  If the application is received after 5 p.m. on the 
Friday immediately preceding the election, the municipal clerk or the clerk [s agent 
shall immediately take the ballot to the court in which the elector is serving as a 
juror and deposit it with the judge.  The judge shall recess court, as soon as 
convenient, and give the elector the ballot.  The judge shall then witness the voting 
procedure as provided in s. 6.87 and shall deliver the ballot to the clerk or agent of 
the clerk who shall deliver it to the polling place election inspectors of the proper 
ward or election district or, in municipalities where absentee ballots are canvassed 
under s. 7.52, to the municipal clerk as required in s. 6.88.  If application is made 
under sub. (2) or (2m), the application may be received no later than 5 p.m. on the 
Friday immediately preceding the election.
SECTION  32.  6.86 (3) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.86 (3) (c)  An application under par. (a) 1. may be made and a registration 
form under par. (a) 2. may be filed in person at the office of the municipal clerk not 
earlier than 7 days before an election and not later than 5 p.m. on the day of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 224 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  32
election.  A list of hospitalized electors applying for ballots under par. (a) 1. shall be 
made by the municipal clerk and used to check that the electors vote only once, and 
by absentee ballot.  If Except as provided in s. 6.34 (2m), if the elector is registering 
for the election after the close of registration or if the elector registered by mail and 
has not voted in an election in this state, the municipal clerk shall inform the agent 
that proof of residence under s. 6.34 is required and the elector shall enclose proof of 
residence under s. 6.34 in the envelope with the ballot.  The clerk shall verify that 
the name on any required proof of identification presented by the agent conforms to 
the name on the elector [s application.  The clerk shall then enter his or her initials 
on the carrier envelope indicating that the agent presented proof of identification to 
the clerk.  The agent is not required to enter a signature on the registration list.  
The ballot shall be sealed by the elector and returned to the municipal clerk either 
by mail or by personal delivery of the agent; but if the ballot is returned on the day 
of the election, the agent shall make personal delivery to the polling place serving 
the hospitalized elector [s residence before the closing hour or, in municipalities 
where absentee ballots are canvassed under s. 7.52, to the municipal clerk no later 
than 8 p.m. on election day.
SECTION  33.  6.87 (2) (form) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.87 (2) (form)
[STATE OF ....
County of ....]
or
[(name of foreign country and city or other jurisdictional unit)]1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 225 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  33
I, ...., certify subject to the penalties of s. 12.60 (1) (b), Wis. Stats., for false 
statements, that I am a resident of the [.... ward of the] (town) (village) of ...., or of 
the .... aldermanic district in the city of ...., residing at ....* in said city, the county 
of ...., state of Wisconsin, and am entitled to vote in the (ward) (election district) at 
the election to be held on ....; that I am not voting at any other location in this 
election; that I am unable or unwilling to appear at the polling place in the (ward) 
(election district) on election day or have changed my residence within the state 
from one ward or election district to another later than 28 10 days before the 
election. I certify that I exhibited the enclosed ballot unmarked to the witness, that 
I then in (his) (her) presence and in the presence of no other person marked the 
ballot and enclosed and sealed the same in this envelope in such a manner that no 
one but myself and any person rendering assistance under s. 6.87 (5), Wis. Stats., if 
I requested assistance, could know how I voted.
Signed ....
Identification serial number, if any: ....
The witness shall execute the following:
I, the undersigned witness, subject to the penalties of s. 12.60 (1) (b), Wis.  
Stats., for false statements, certify that I am an adult U.S. citizen** and that the 
above statements are true and the voting procedure was executed as there stated.  
I am not a candidate for any office on the enclosed ballot (except in the case of an 
incumbent municipal clerk).  I did not solicit or advise the elector to vote for or 
against any candidate or measure.
....(Printed name)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 226 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  33
....(Address)***
Signed ....
*  An elector who provides an identification serial number issued under s. 
6.47 (3), Wis. Stats., need not provide a street address.
**  An individual who serves as a witness for a military elector or an 
overseas elector voting absentee, regardless of whether the elector qualifies as a 
resident of Wisconsin under s. 6.10, Wis. Stats., need not be a U.S. citizen but must 
be 18 years of age or older.
***  If this form is executed before 2 special voting deputies under s. 6.875 
(6), Wis. Stats., both deputies shall witness and sign.
SECTION  34.  6.87 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.87 (6)  The ballot shall be returned so it is delivered to the polling place 
election inspectors of the proper ward or election district no later than 8 p.m. on 
election day.  Except in municipalities where absentee ballots are canvassed under 
s. 7.52, if the municipal clerk receives an absentee ballot on election day, the clerk 
shall secure the ballot and cause the ballot to be delivered to the polling place 
serving the elector [s residence before 8 p.m.  Any ballot not mailed or delivered as 
provided in this subsection may not be counted.
SECTION  35.  6.88 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.88 (1)  When an absentee ballot arrives at the office of the municipal clerk, 
or at an alternate site under s. 6.855, if applicable, the clerk shall enclose it, 
unopened, in a carrier envelope which shall be securely sealed and endorsed with 
the name and official title of the clerk, and the words XThis envelope contains the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 227 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  35
ballot of an absent elector and must be opened in the same room where votes are 
being cast at the polls during polling hours on election day or, in municipalities 
where absentee ballots are canvassed under s. 7.52, stats., at a meeting of the 
municipal board of absentee ballot canvassers under s. 7.52, stats only as provided 
by law.Y If the elector is a military elector, as defined in s. 6.34 (1), or an overseas 
elector, regardless of whether the elector qualifies as a resident of this state under 
s. 6.10, and the ballot was received by the elector by facsimile transmission or 
electronic mail and is accompanied by a separate certificate, the clerk shall enclose 
the ballot in a certificate envelope and securely append the completed certificate to 
the outside of the envelope before enclosing the ballot in the carrier envelope.  The 
clerk shall keep the ballot in the clerk [s office or at the alternate site, if applicable 
until delivered, as required in sub. (2).
SECTION  36.  6.88 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
6.88 (3) (a)  Except in municipalities where absentee ballots are canvassed 
under s. 7.52, at any time between the opening and closing of the polls on election 
day, or between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. on the day before the election if authorized for that 
election under s. 7.525, the inspectors shall, in the same room where votes are being 
cast, or in the place where absentee ballots begin being canvassed early under s. 
7.525, in such a manner that members of the public can hear and see the 
procedures, open the carrier envelope only, and announce the name of the absent 
elector or the identification serial number of the absent elector if the elector has a 
confidential listing under s. 6.47 (2).  When the inspectors find that the certification 
has been properly executed, the applicant is a qualified elector of the ward or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 228 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  36
election district, and the applicant has not voted in the election, they shall enter an 
indication on the poll list next to the applicant [s name indicating an absentee ballot 
is cast by the elector.  They shall then open the envelope containing the ballot in a 
manner so as not to deface or destroy the certification thereon.  The inspectors shall 
take out the ballot without unfolding it or permitting it to be unfolded or examined.  
Unless the ballot is cast under s. 6.95, the inspectors shall verify that the ballot has 
been endorsed by the issuing clerk.  If the poll list indicates that proof of residence 
under s. 6.34 is required and proof of residence is enclosed, the inspectors shall 
enter both the type of identifying document submitted by the absent elector and the 
name of the entity or institution that issued the identifying document on the poll 
list in the space provided.  If the poll list indicates that proof of residence under s. 
6.34 is required and no proof of residence is enclosed or the name or address on the 
document that is provided is not the same as the name and address shown on the 
poll list, the inspectors shall proceed as provided under s. 6.97 (2).  The inspectors 
shall then deposit the ballot into the proper ballot box and enter the absent elector [s 
name or voting number after his or her name on the poll list in the same manner as 
if the elector had been present and voted in person.
SECTION  37.  6.94 of the statutes is amended to read:
6.94  Challenged elector oath.   If the person challenged refuses to answer 
fully any relevant questions put to him or her by the inspector under s. 6.92, the 
inspectors shall reject the elector [s vote.  If the challenge is not withdrawn after the 
person offering to vote has answered the questions, one of the inspectors shall 
administer to the person the following oath or affirmation:  XYou do solemnly swear 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 229 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  37
(or affirm) that: you are 18 years of age; you are a citizen of the United States; you 
are now and for 28 10 consecutive days have been a resident of this ward except 
under s. 6.02 (2); you have not voted at this election; you have not made any bet or 
wager or become directly or indirectly interested in any bet or wager depending 
upon the result of this election; you are not on any other ground disqualified to vote 
at this election Y.  If the person challenged refuses to take the oath or affirmation, 
the person [s vote shall be rejected.  If the person challenged answers fully all 
relevant questions put to the elector by the inspector under s. 6.92, takes the oath or 
affirmation, and fulfills the applicable registration requirements, and if the 
answers to the questions given by the person indicate that the person meets the 
voting qualification requirements, the person [s vote shall be received.
SECTION  38.  7.52 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
7.52 (1) (a)  The governing body of any municipality may provide by ordinance 
that, in lieu of canvassing absentee ballots at polling places under s. 6.88, the 
municipal board of absentee ballot canvassers designated under s. 7.53 (2m) shall, 
at each election held in the municipality, canvass all absentee ballots received by 
the municipal clerk by 8 p.m. on election day.  Prior to enacting an ordinance under 
this subsection, the municipal clerk or board of election commissioners of the 
municipality shall notify the elections commission in writing of the proposed 
enactment and shall consult with the elections commission concerning 
administration of this section.  At every election held in the municipality following 
enactment of an ordinance under this subsection, the board of absentee ballot 
canvassers shall, between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. on the day before the election if 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 230 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  38
authorized for that election under s. 7.525 or any time after the opening of the polls 
and before 10 p.m. on election day, publicly convene to count the absentee ballots for 
the municipality.  The municipal clerk shall give at least 48 hours [ notice of any 
meeting under this subsection.  Any member of the public has the same right of 
access to a meeting of the municipal board of absentee ballot canvassers under this 
subsection that the individual would have under s. 7.41 to observe the proceedings 
at a polling place.  The board of absentee ballot canvassers may order the removal of 
any individual exercising the right to observe the proceedings if the individual 
disrupts the meeting.
SECTION  39.  7.52 (5) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
7.52 (5) (b)  For the purpose of deciding upon ballots that are challenged for 
any reason, the board of absentee ballot canvassers may call before it any person 
whose absentee ballot is challenged if the person is available to be called.  If the 
person challenged refuses to answer fully any relevant questions put to him or her 
by the board of absentee ballot canvassers under s. 6.92, the board of absentee 
ballot canvassers shall reject the person [s vote.  If the challenge is not withdrawn 
after the person offering to vote has answered the questions, one of the members of 
the board of absentee ballot canvassers shall administer to the person the following 
oath or affirmation:  XYou do solemnly swear (or affirm) that: you are 18 years of 
age; you are a citizen of the United States; you are now and for 28 10 consecutive 
days have been a resident of this ward except under s. 6.02 (2), stats.; you have not 
voted at this election; you have not made any bet or wager or become directly or 
indirectly interested in any bet or wager depending upon the result of this election; 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 231 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  39
you are not on any other ground disqualified to vote at this election. Y  If the person 
challenged refuses to take the oath or affirmation, the person [s vote shall be 
rejected.  If the person challenged answers fully all relevant questions put to the 
elector by the board of absentee ballot canvassers under s. 6.92, takes the oath or 
affirmation, and fulfills the applicable registration requirements, and if the 
answers to the questions given by the person indicate that the person meets the 
voting qualification requirements, the person [s vote shall be received.
SECTION  40.  7.52 (10) of the statutes is created to read:
7.52 (10)  If, subject to s. 7.525, absentee ballots begin being canvassed under 
this section on the day before the election, no action under subs. (4) to (8) may be 
performed before election day.
SECTION  41.  7.525 of the statutes is created to read:
7.525   Early canvassing of absentee ballots.   (1)  AUTHORIZING  EARLY  
CANVASSING ; REQUIREMENTS .  (a) 1.  The municipal clerk or municipal board of 
election commissioners may elect to begin the canvassing of absentee ballots 
received by the municipal clerk on the day before any election.
2.  Prior to the canvass under subd. 1., the municipal clerk or municipal board 
of election commissioners shall notify the elections commission in writing and shall 
consult with the elections commission concerning administration of this section.
(b)  Ballots may be canvassed early under this section only between 7 a.m. and 
8 p.m. on the day before the election and may not be tallied until after the polls close 
on election day.
(c)  Any member of the public has the same right of access to a place where 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 232 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  41
absentee ballots are being canvassed early under this section that the individual 
would have under s. 7.41 to observe the proceedings at a polling place.
(d)  When not in use, automatic tabulating equipment used for purposes of this 
section and the areas where the programmed media, memory devices, and ballots 
are housed shall be secured with tamper-evident security seals in a double-lock 
location such as a locked cabinet inside a locked office.
(e)  No person may act in any manner that would give him or her the ability to 
know or to provide information on the accumulating or final results from the ballots 
canvassed early under this section before the close of the polls on election day.  A 
person who violates this paragraph is guilty of a Class I felony.
(2)  NOTICE  REQUIREMENTS .  Absentee ballots may not begin being canvassed 
early under this section for any election unless all of the following apply:
(a)  At least 70 days before the election, the municipal clerk or executive 
director of the municipal board of election commissioners notifies in writing the 
county clerk or executive director of the county board of election commissioners that 
early canvassing of absentee ballots will take place in the election.
(b)  The notice under s. 10.01 (2) (e) specifies the date and time during which, 
and each location where, the early canvassing of absentee ballots will be conducted.
SECTION  42.  8.50 (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
8.50  Special elections.   (intro.)  Unless otherwise provided, this section 
applies to filling vacancies in the U.S. senate and house of representatives, 
executive state offices except the offices of governor, lieutenant governor, and 
district attorney, judicial and legislative state offices, county, city, village, and town 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 233 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  42
offices, and the offices of municipal judge and member of the board of school 
directors in school districts organized under ch. 119.  State legislative offices may be 
filled in anticipation of the occurrence of a vacancy whenever authorized in sub. (4) 
(e).  No Except as provided in sub. (4m), no special election may be held after 
February 1 preceding the spring election unless it is held on the same day as the 
spring election, nor after August 1 preceding the general election unless it is held on 
the same day as the general election, until the day after that election.  If the special 
election is held on the day of the general election, the primary for the special 
election, if any, shall be held on the day of the partisan primary.  If the special 
election is held on the day of the spring election, the primary for the special election, 
if any, shall be held on the day of the spring primary.
SECTION  43.  8.50 (2) (a) and (b) of the statutes are amended to read:
8.50 (2) (a)  The Except as provided in sub. (4m), the date for the special 
election shall be not less than 62 nor more than 77 days from the date of the order 
except when the special election is held to fill a vacancy in a national office or the 
special election is held on the day of the general election or spring election.  If a 
special election is held concurrently with the spring election, the special election 
may be ordered not earlier than 92 days prior to the spring primary and not later 
than 49 days prior to that primary.  If a special election is held concurrently with 
the general election or a special election is held to fill a national office, the special 
election may be ordered not earlier than 122 days prior to the partisan primary or 
special primary, respectively, and not later than 92 days prior to that primary.
(b)  If Except as provided in sub. (4m), if a primary is required, the primary 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 234 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  43
shall be on the day 4 weeks before the day of the special election except when the 
special election is held on the same day as the general election the special primary 
shall be held on the same day as the partisan primary or if the special election is 
held concurrently with the spring election, the primary shall be held concurrently 
with the spring primary, and except when the special election is held on the 
Tuesday after the first Monday in November of an odd-numbered year, the primary 
shall be held on the 2nd Tuesday of August in that year.
SECTION  44.  8.50 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
8.50 (3) (a)  Nomination Except as provided in sub. (4m), nomination papers 
may be circulated no sooner than the day the order for the special election is filed 
and shall be filed not later than 5 p.m. 28 days before the day that the special 
primary will or would be held, if required, except when a special election is held 
concurrently with the spring election or general election, the deadline for filing 
nomination papers shall be specified in the order and the date shall be no earlier 
than the date provided in s. 8.10 (2) (a) or 8.15 (1), respectively, and no later than 35 
days prior to the date of the spring primary or no later than June 1 preceding the 
partisan primary.  Nomination papers may be filed in the manner specified in s. 
8.10, 8.15, or 8.20.  Each candidate shall file a declaration of candidacy in the 
manner provided in s. 8.21 no later than the latest time provided in the order for 
filing nomination papers.  If a candidate for state or local office has not filed a 
registration statement under s. 11.0202 (1) (a) at the time he or she files nomination 
papers, the candidate shall file the statement with the papers.  A candidate for 
state office shall also file a statement of economic interests with the ethics 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 235 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  44
commission no later than the end of the 3rd day following the last day for filing 
nomination papers specified in the order.
SECTION  45.  8.50 (4) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  46.  8.50 (4m) of the statutes is created to read:
8.50 (4m)   SPECIAL  ELECTIONS  FOR NATIONAL  OFFICE .  (a)  Except as provided 
in par. (b), a vacancy in the office of U.S. senator or representative in congress shall 
be filled as soon as practicable in the following manner:
1.  At a special election to be held on the 3rd Tuesday in May following the first 
day of the vacancy.  The special primary shall be held concurrently with the spring 
primary on the 3rd Tuesday in February.  The first day for circulating nomination 
papers shall be November 1, and the papers shall be filed no later 5 p.m. on the first 
Tuesday in December preceding the primary.
2.  At a special election to be held on the 2nd Tuesday in August following the 
first day of the vacancy.  The special primary shall be held on the 3rd Tuesday in 
May in that year.  The first day for circulating nomination papers shall be February 
1, and the papers shall be filed no later than 5 p.m. on the first Tuesday in March.
3.  At a special election to be held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in 
November following the first day of the vacancy.  The special primary shall be held 
on the 2nd Tuesday in August in that year.  Nomination papers shall be circulated 
and filed as provided under s. 8.15.
(b)  A special election shall not be held under par. (a) 3. in any year in which 
the general election is held for that office, but, instead, the vacancy shall be filled at 
the partisan primary and general election.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 236 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  46
(c)  A vacancy filled under par. (a) shall be for the residue of the unexpired 
term.
SECTION  47.  9.01 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
9.01 (4)  RIGHT  TO COMPLETE  RECOUNT .  Whenever a recount petition for part 
of the wards within a jurisdiction or district, or for part of the municipalities within 
a district where there are no wards, is filed under this section, the opposing 
candidate a candidate, other than the candidate filing that petition, who, upon 
completion of the partial recount, is an aggrieved party, as determined under s. 9.01 
(1) (a) 5., or any voter or other interested party including a municipality if on a 
referendum question, may similarly file a petition for recount in any or all of the 
remaining wards or municipalities in the jurisdiction or district.  With respect to a 
petition for a partial recount on a referendum question, any voter or other 
interested party, including a municipality, may similarly file a petition for recount 
in any or all of the remaining wards or municipalities in the jurisdiction or district.  
The Any petition under this subsection shall be filed not later than 5 p.m. 2 days 
after the board of canvassers completes the first recount.  The proper board of 
canvassers shall reconvene at 9 a.m. on the next business day following the filing of 
the petition and proceed to recount the ballots in all wards or municipalities 
specified and to otherwise review the allegations of fact contained in the petition.  
Any errors shall be corrected.
SECTION  48.  13.09 (7) of the statutes is created to read:
13.09 (7)  If a member of the committee objects to a proposed action or item 
during a period of passive review required by law for the purpose of reviewing the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 237 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  48
proposed action or item, the name of each objecting member, as well as the reason 
for each objection, shall be recorded and made publicly available.
SECTION  49.  13.124 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  50.  13.127 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  51.  13.365 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  52.  13.48 (20v) of the statutes is renumbered 16.095, and 16.095 (1), 
(2), (3), (4) and (5), as renumbered, are amended to read:
16.095 (1)  The building commission department shall establish and operate a 
grant program under this subsection section to assist nonstate organizations and 
cities, villages, towns, counties, and tribal governments to carry out construction 
projects having a statewide public purpose, as determined by the building 
commission or as specified in subs. (6) to (14).
(2)  From the appropriation under s. 20.867 (3) (x) 20.505 (1) (aw), the building 
commission department may award a grant to any nonstate organization for a 
construction project that satisfies par. (a) having a statewide public purpose, as 
determined by the building commission under sub. (1) or as specified in sub. (7) (a), 
(8) (a), (9) (a), (10) (a), (11) (a), or (14) (a), if the grant is approved by the building 
commission.
(3)  Before approving each grant under sub. (2) or (6), the building commission 
shall determine that the nonstate organization or city, village, town, county, or 
tribal government carrying out the project has secured additional funding for the 
project from nonstate revenue sources in an amount that is equal to at least half of 
the total cost of the project.
(4)  If the building commission department awards a grant under par. (b) sub. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 238 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  52
(2), and if, for any reason, the space that is constructed or otherwise improved with 
funds from the grant is not used for one or more public purposes determined by the 
building commission under par. (a) sub. (1), or for the grants described in subs. (6) 
to (14), the public purposes specified in those subsections, the state shall retain an 
ownership interest in the constructed or otherwise improved space equal to the 
amount of the state [s grant.
(5)  The building commission department is prohibited from awarding a grant 
under par. (b) sub. (2) or (6) unless the department of administration has reviewed 
and approved plans for the construction project associated with the grant.  
Notwithstanding ss. 16.85 (1) and 16.855 (1m), the department of administration is 
prohibited from supervising any services or work or letting any contract for the 
project.  Section 16.87 does not apply to the project.
SECTION  53.  13.48 (26m) of the statutes is created to read:
13.48 (26m)   LEAD SERVICE  LINE  REPLACEMENT .  The legislature finds and 
determines that the prevalence of lead service lines in connections to public water 
systems poses a public health hazard and that processes for reducing lead entering 
drinking water from such pipes requires additional treatment of wastewater.  It is 
therefore in the public interest, and it is the public policy of this state, to assist 
private users of public water systems in replacing lead service lines.
SECTION  54.  13.56 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
13.56 (2)  PARTICIPATION  IN CERTAIN  PROCEEDINGS .  The cochairpersons of the 
joint committee for review of administrative rules or their designated agents shall 
accept service made under ss. 227.40 (5) and 806.04 (11).  If the committee 
determines that the legislature should be represented in the proceeding, it shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 239 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  54
request the joint committee on legislative organization to intervene in designate the 
legislature [s representative for the proceeding as provided under s. 806.04 (11).  The 
costs of participation in the proceeding shall be paid equally from the 
appropriations under s. 20.765 (1) (a) and (b), except that such costs incurred by the 
department of justice shall be paid from the appropriation under s. 20.455 (1) (d).
SECTION  55.  13.75 (2) of the statutes is created to read:
13.75 (2)  All fees collected under this section shall be deposited in the general 
fund.
SECTION  56.  13.90 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
13.90 (2)  The cochairpersons of the joint committee on legislative 
organization or their designated agent shall accept service made under ss. s. 806.04 
(11) and 893.825 (2).  If the committee, the senate organization committee, or the 
assembly organization committee determines that the legislature should intervene 
be represented in the proceeding as provided under s. 803.09 (2m), the assembly 
shall represent the assembly, the senate shall represent the senate, and the joint 
committee on legislative organization shall represent the legislature, that 
committee shall designate the legislature [s representative for the proceeding.  The 
costs of participation in the proceeding shall be paid equally from the 
appropriations under s. 20.765 (1) (a) and (b), except that such costs incurred by the 
department of justice shall be paid from the appropriation under s. 20.455 (1) (d).
SECTION  57.  13.94 (1) (zm) of the statutes is created to read:
13.94 (1) (zm)  Biennially, beginning in 2027, prepare a performance 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 240 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  57
evaluation audit of the program to accredit productions for purposes of ss. 71.07 (5f) 
and (5h), 71.28 (5f) and (5h), and 71.47 (5f) and (5h) by the department of tourism.
SECTION  58.  14.38 (9) of the statutes is amended to read:
14.38 (9)  F URNISH  CERTIFIED  COPIES ; FEES .  Make a copy of any law, 
resolution, deed, bond, record, document or paper deposited or kept in his or her 
office, upon request therefor, attach thereto his or her certificate, with the greater 
or lesser seal affixed, and collect therefor 50 cents per page and $5 for such 
certificate; if a copy is not to be certified and if the reproduction is performed by the 
office of the secretary of state, then collect a fee to cover the actual and necessary 
cost of reproduction and actual and necessary cost of transcription required to 
produce the copy or $2, whichever is greater; also to record any document 
authorized or required by law to be recorded in his or her office, and to charge 
therefor a fee of $1 per page.  The fee for certified copies and for certificates as to 
results of searches of the records and files of his or her office, when a printed form 
is used, shall be $5, but when  a  an apostille or other specially prepared form is 
required the fee shall be $10.  Telegraphic reports as to results of record searches 
shall be $5 plus the cost of the telegram.  The secretary of state shall charge and 
collect for preparing any record or certificate under this subsection in an 
expeditious manner, an expedited service fee of $25 in addition to the fee otherwise 
required under this subsection.
SECTION  59.  14.38 (12) of the statutes is created to read:
14.38 (12)  AFFIX GREAT  SEAL ; AUTHENTICATIONS .  Perform authentication 
services as the exclusive provider of such services and affix the great seal to such 
authentications in the manner necessary to perform such services.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 241 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  60
SECTION  60.  14.38 (13) of the statutes is created to read:
14.38 (13)  AFFIX GREAT  SEAL  OR LESSER  SEAL ; APOSTILLES .  Perform apostille 
services and affix the great seal or a lesser seal to such apostilles in the manner 
necessary to perform such services.
SECTION  61.  14.46 of the statutes is created to read:
14.46   Deputy secretary of state.   The secretary of state may appoint a 
deputy secretary of state who may perform and execute any duty or power of the 
secretary of state, except duties and powers the secretary of state performs as a 
member of the board of commissioners of public lands.  The deputy secretary of 
state shall take and file the official oath and shall file an official bond in the sum 
and with the conditions as the secretary of state prescribes.
SECTION  62.  15.01 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
15.01 (6)  XDivision, Y Xbureau,Y Xsection,Y and XunitY means the subunits of a 
department or an independent agency, whether specifically created by law or 
created by the head of the department or the independent agency for the more 
economic and efficient administration and operation of the programs assigned to 
the department or independent agency.  The office of credit unions in the 
department of financial institutions, the office of the inspector general in the 
department of children and families, the office of the inspector general in the 
department of health services, and the office of the public intervenor in the office of 
the commissioner of insurance, the office of children [s mental health in the 
department of health services, and the office of violence prevention in the 
department of administration have the meaning of XdivisionY under this subsection.  
The office of the long-term care ombudsman under the board on aging and long-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 242 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  62
term care and the office of educational accountability and the office of literacy in 
the department of public instruction have the meaning of XbureauY under this 
subsection.
SECTION  63.  15.02 (3) (c) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
15.02 (3) (c) 1.  The principal subunit of the department is the XdivisionY.  
Each division shall be headed by an Xadministrator Y.  The office of credit unions in 
the department of financial institutions and, the office of children [s mental health 
in the department of health services, and the office of violence prevention in the 
department of administration have the meaning of XdivisionY and the director of 
credit unions in the department of financial institutions and, the director of the 
office of children [s mental health in the department of health services, and the 
director of the office of violence prevention in the department of administration 
have the meaning of Xadministrator Y under this subdivision.
SECTION  64.  15.03 of the statutes is amended to read:
15.03   Attachment for limited purposes.   Any division, office, commission, 
council or board attached under this section to a department or independent agency 
or a specified division thereof shall be a distinct unit of that department, 
independent agency or specified division.  Any division, office, commission, council 
or board so attached shall exercise its powers, duties and functions prescribed by 
law, including rule making, licensing and regulation, and operational planning 
within the area of program responsibility of the division, office, commission, council 
or board, independently of the head of the department or independent agency, but 
budgeting, program coordination and related management functions shall be 
performed under the direction and supervision of the head of the department or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 243 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  64
independent agency, except that with respect to the office of the commissioner of 
railroads, all personnel and biennial budget requests by the office of the 
commissioner of railroads shall be provided to the department of transportation as 
required under s. 189.02 (7) and shall be processed and properly forwarded by the 
public service commission department of transportation without change except as 
requested and concurred in by the office of the commissioner of railroads.
SECTION  65.  15.07 (3) (bm) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
15.07 (3) (bm) 7.  The prescription drug affordability review board shall meet 
at least 4 times each year.
SECTION  66.  15.105 (35) of the statutes is created to read:
15.105 (35)  OFFICE  OF VIOLENCE  PREVENTION .  There is created an office of 
violence prevention, attached to the department of administration under s. 15.03.  
The director of the office shall be appointed by the secretary of administration.
SECTION  67.  15.145 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
15.145   (title)  Same; attached boards, commissions, and councils, and 
offices.
SECTION  68.  15.145 (7) of the statutes is created to read:
15.145  (7)  OFFICE  OF THE OMBUDSPERSON  FOR CORRECTIONS .  There is created 
an office of the ombudsperson for corrections, attached to the department of 
corrections under s. 15.03.  The office shall be under the direction and supervision 
of an ombudsperson who shall be nominated by the governor, with the advice and 
consent of three-fourths of members elected to the senate appointed, and may be 
removed only by the governor for just cause.
SECTION  69.  15.165 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 244 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  69
15.165   (title)  Same; attached boards and offices.
SECTION  70.  15.165 (5) of the statutes is created to read:
15.165 (5)  OFFICE  OF INTERNAL  AUDIT .  There is created an office of internal 
audit that is attached to the department of employee trust funds under s. 15.03.  
The office shall be under the direction and supervision of an internal auditor who 
shall be appointed by the employee trust funds board in the classified service.  The 
internal auditor shall report directly to the employee trust funds board.
SECTION  71.  15.465 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
15.465   (title)  Same; attached board and office.
SECTION  72.  15.615 of the statutes is created to read:
15.615   Same; attached office.   (1)  OFFICE  OF ELECTION  TRANSPARENCY  AND 
COMPLIANCE .  There is created an office of election transparency and compliance, 
which is attached to the elections commission under s. 15.03.  The office shall be 
under the direction and supervision of a director who shall be a policy initiatives 
advisor appointed in the classified service by the administrator or interim 
administrator of the elections commission.
SECTION  73.  15.67 of the statutes is renumbered 15.105 (36), and 15.105 (36) 
(title), (a) (intro.) and (b), as renumbered, are amended to read:
15.105 (36) (title)  H IGHER  EDUCATIONAL  AIDS BOARD ; CREATION .  (a) (intro.)  
There is created a higher educational aids board consisting, attached to the 
department of administration under s. 15.03.  The board shall consist of the state 
superintendent of public instruction and the following members appointed for 3-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 245 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  73
year terms, except that the members specified under pars. (a) 5. subds. 1. e. and  6. 
f. and (b) 3. 2. c. shall be appointed for 2-year terms:
(b)  If a student member under sub. (1) par. (a) loses the status upon which the 
appointment was based, he or she shall cease to be a member of the higher 
educational aids board upon appointment to the higher educational aids board of a 
qualified successor.
SECTION  74.  15.675 (title) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  75.  15.675 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 15.105 (37), and 15.105 
(37) (intro.), as renumbered, is amended to read:
15.105 (37)  DISTANCE  LEARNING  AUTHORIZATION  BOARD .  (intro.)  There is 
created a distance learning authorization board, for higher education, that is 
attached to the higher educational aids board department of administration under 
s. 15.03 and that consists of all of the following members:
SECTION  76.  15.732 of the statutes is created to read:
15.732   Same; attached office.   (1)  OFFICE  OF THE PUBLIC  INTERVENOR .  
There is created an office of the public intervenor which is attached to the office of 
the commissioner of insurance.
SECTION  77.  15.735 of the statutes is created to read:
15.735  Same; attached board.  (1)   There is created a prescription drug 
affordability review board attached to the office of the commissioner of insurance 
under s. 15.03.  The board shall consist of the following members:
(a)  The commissioner of insurance or his or her designee.
(b)  Two members appointed for 4-year terms who represent the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 246 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  77
pharmaceutical drug industry, including pharmaceutical drug manufacturers and 
wholesalers.  At least one of the members appointed under this paragraph shall be 
a licensed pharmacist.
(c)  Two members appointed for 4-year terms who represent the health 
insurance industry, including insurers and pharmacy benefit managers.
(d)  Two members appointed for 4-year terms who represent the health care 
industry, including hospitals, physicians, pharmacies, and pharmacists.  At least 
one of the members appointed under this paragraph shall be a licensed 
practitioner.
(e)  Two members appointed for 4-year terms who represent the interests of 
the public.
(2)  A member appointed under sub. (1), except for a member appointed under 
sub. (1) (b), may not be an employee of, a board member of, or a consultant to a drug 
manufacturer or trade association for drug manufacturers.
(3)  Any conflict of interest, including any financial or personal association, 
that has the potential to bias or has the appearance of biasing an individual [s 
decision in matters related to the board or the conduct of the board [s activities shall 
be considered and disclosed when appointing that individual to the board under 
sub. (1).
SECTION  78.  15.79 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
15.79 (1)  There is created a public service commission consisting of one 
chairperson and 2 commissioners.  The chairperson and any commissioner may not 
have a financial interest in a railroad, water carrier, or public utility.  If the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 247 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  78
chairperson or a commissioner voluntarily becomes so interested, the chairperson [s 
or commissioner [s office shall become vacant.  If the chairperson or commissioner 
involuntarily becomes so interested, the chairperson [s or commissioner [s office 
shall become vacant unless the chairperson or commissioner divests himself or 
herself of the interest within a reasonable time.  The chairperson and each 
commissioner shall hold office until a successor is appointed and qualified.
SECTION  79.  15.795 (title) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  80.  15.795 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 15.465 (3) and amended 
to read:
15.465 (3)  OFFICE  OF THE COMMISSIONER  OF RAILROADS .  There is created an 
office of the commissioner of railroads which is attached to the public service 
commission department of transportation under s. 15.03, provided that s. 85.02 (1) 
does not apply to the office of the commissioner of railroads.  The commissioner of 
railroads shall have expertise in railroad issues and may not have a financial 
interest in a railroad, as defined in s. 195.02 (1), or a water carrier, as defined in s. 
195.02 (5).  The commissioner may not serve on or under any committee of a 
political party.  The commissioner shall hold office until a successor is appointed 
and qualified.
SECTION  81.  16.004 (26) of the statutes is created to read:
16.004 (26)  TRIBAL  RELATIONS .  The secretary shall appoint a director of 
Native American affairs to manage relations between the state and American 
Indian tribes or bands in this state.
SECTION  82.  16.02 of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 248 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  82
16.02  Office of violence prevention.   (1)  PURPOSE .  The office of violence 
prevention shall coordinate and expand violence prevention activities in this state.
(2)  DUTIES .  The office of violence prevention shall do all of the following:
(a)  Establish a violence prevention focus across state government.
(b)  Collaborate with other state agencies that are interested or active in the 
reduction of interpersonal violence, including child abuse, elder abuse, violence 
against youth, domestic violence, gun violence, intimate partner violence, suicide, 
sexual assault, and gender-based violence.
(c)  Support the development and implementation of comprehensive, 
community-based violence prevention initiatives within local units of government 
across the state, including collaborating with law enforcement agencies.
(d)  Develop sources of funding beyond state revenues to maintain the office 
and expand its activities.
(e)  Create a directory of existing violence prevention services and activities in 
each county.
(f)  Support and provide technical assistance to local organizations that 
provide violence prevention services, including in seeking out and applying for 
grant funding in support of their initiatives and provide technical assistance and 
support to the organizations to maximize the organizations [ likelihood of success 
with their applications.
(g)  Develop public education campaigns to promote safer communities.
(3)  GRANTS .  (a)  From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (bs), the office of 
violence prevention shall award grants to support effective violence reduction 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 249 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  82
initiatives in communities across the state, including supporting efforts to reduce 
gun violence, group violence, suicides, domestic violence, intimate partner violence, 
and gender-based violence.  
(b)  The grants under this subsection shall be used to support, expand, and 
replicate evidence-based violence reduction initiatives, including hospital-based 
violence intervention programs, evidence-based street outreach programs, and 
focused deterrence strategies, that seek to interrupt the cycles of violence, 
victimization, and retaliation in order to reduce the incidence of firearm violence.
(c)  Of the grants the department awards under this section, the department 
shall award up to $3,000,000 in grants each fiscal year to federally recognized 
American Indian tribes or bands in this state and organizations affiliated with 
tribes relating to missing and murdered indigenous women.
(d)  Of the grants the department awards under this section, the department 
shall award up to $500,000 in suicide prevention grants each fiscal year to 
organizations or coalitions of organizations, which may include a city, village, town, 
county, or federally recognized American Indian tribe or band in this state, for any 
of the following purposes: 
1.  To train staff at a firearm retailer or firearm range on how to recognize a 
person who may be considering suicide. 
2.  To provide suicide prevention materials for distribution at a firearm 
retailer or firearm range. 
3.  To provide voluntary, temporary firearm storage. 
SECTION  83.  16.035 of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 250 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  83
16.035   Community climate action grants.   (1)  The department shall 
establish and administer a community climate action grant program.  
(2)  The department shall do all of the following:
(a)  From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (4) (cm), award grants to local 
governmental units and governing bodies of federally recognized American Indian 
tribes and bands in this state to do any of the following:
1.  Conduct climate risk assessments and prepare action plans.
2.  Implement emission-reducing and climate action projects.
(b)  Assist local governmental units and governing bodies of federally 
recognized American Indian tribes and bands in this state with the development of 
climate risk assessment and action plans.
SECTION  84.  16.037 of the statutes is created to read:
16.037   Community climate engagement grant program.   The 
department shall establish and administer a community climate engagement grant 
program under which the department shall award grants to local nongovernmental 
organizations in this state for the purpose of promoting local climate and clean 
energy community engagement.  Additionally under the program, the department 
shall itself conduct and support outreach across the state concerning climate 
change, climate resilience, and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
SECTION  85.  16.07 of the statutes is created to read:
16.07   Grants to support tribal programs.   From the appropriation under 
s. 20.505 (1) (ky), the department shall award a grant to each American Indian 
tribe or band in this state for use as the tribe or band deems necessary to support 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 251 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  85
programs to meet the needs of its members.  No tribe or band may be awarded grant 
moneys under this section that exceed the amount awarded to any other tribe or 
band.  No grant moneys may be used to pay gaming-related expenses.
SECTION  86.  16.075 of the statutes is created to read:
16.075   Grants to tribes for alternatives to prosecution and 
incarceration programs.   (1)  In this section, XtribeY has the meaning given in s. 
165.91 (1).
(2)  From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (cb), the department shall 
make grants to tribes for alternatives to prosecution and incarceration programs 
that meet the criteria specified in s. 165.95 (3).
(5)  Grants made under sub. (2) shall be provided on a calendar year basis.
(6)  The department of justice shall assist the department with its duties 
under this section.
SECTION  87.  16.08 of the statutes is created to read:
16.08   Grants to promote tribal language and cultural revitalization.   
From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (ky), the department shall award a 
grant to each American Indian tribe or band in this state to promote tribal 
language and cultural revitalization.  No tribe or band may be awarded grant 
moneys under this section that exceed the amount awarded to any other tribe or 
band.  No grant moneys may be used to pay gaming-related expenses.
SECTION  88.  16.088 (4) to (8) of the statutes are created to read:
16.088 (4)  Award grants to the Menominee Indian Tribe of Wisconsin to 
support the Menominee Indian Tribe [s transit services, in an amount up to 
$266,600 annually.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 252 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  88
(5)  Award grants to the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin to conduct an inter-
governmental training program, that shall be available to all tribal governments in 
the state, to improve consultations and communication between the tribes and the 
state, in an amount up to $60,000 annually.
(6)  Award grants to the Wisconsin Indigenous Housing and Economic 
Development Corporation to support tribal economic development and housing 
programs in this state.  The department may not award more than $3,890,000 in 
grants under this subsection in the 2025-26 fiscal year, nor more than $2,540,000 
annually thereafter.
(7)  Award grants to American Indian tribes or bands in this state to support 
strategic planning concerning cybersecurity, in an amount up to $250,000 annually.
(8)  Award grants to American Indian tribes or bands in this state to support 
home repairs that reduce energy burdens and improve health outcomes, in an 
amount up to $1,000,000 annually.
SECTION  89.  16.095 (6) to (14) of the statutes are created to read:
16.095 (6) (a)  The legislature finds and determines that providing assistance 
to local governments to construct facilities that provide public services to help 
citizens of the state is a statewide responsibility of statewide dimension.  It is 
therefore in the public interest, and it is the public policy of this state, to provide the 
department with the authority to award grants to any city, village, town, county, or 
tribal government for construction projects of public buildings.
(b)  From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (r), the department may award 
grants to cities, villages, towns, counties, and tribal governments to assist with 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 253 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  89
construction projects, as specified in par. (a), or as specified in sub. (11) (a), (12) (a), 
or (13) (a), if the grant is approved by the building commission.
(7) (a)  The legislature finds and determines that providing assistance to local 
communities to provide facilities and services to help citizens of the state overcome 
life circumstances and to improve the ability of local communities to address 
homelessness is a statewide responsibility of statewide dimension.  It is therefore in 
the public interest, and it is the public policy of this state, to assist the New 
Community Shelter, Inc., in the construction of a permanent supportive housing 
facility in Brown County.
(b)  The building commission may approve and the department may award a 
grant under sub. (2) of up to $4,000,000 to assist the New Community Shelter, Inc., 
in the construction of a facility, as described in par. (a).
(8) (a)  The legislature finds and determines that providing out-of-school care 
that inspires local youth to be contributing, productive, and responsible members of 
their communities through intentional programming that supports positive 
character development and unique opportunities to grow as individuals, while 
addressing a shortage of dental care, mental health services, and preventative 
health services for youth of underserved populations is a statewide responsibility of 
statewide dimension.  It is therefore in the public interest, and it is the public policy 
of this state, to assist the YMCA of Metropolitan Milwaukee, Inc., and Community 
Smiles Dental in carrying out renovation of the historic Wisconsin Avenue School in 
the city of Milwaukee for use as a health and wellness center.
(b)  The building commission may approve and the department may award a 
grant under sub. (2) of up to $6,000,000 to assist the YMCA of Metropolitan 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 254 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  89
Milwaukee, Inc., and Community Smiles Dental in the renovation of the Wisconsin 
Avenue School, as described in par. (a).
(9) (a)  The legislature finds and determines that assisting local communities 
to provide facilities and services to help citizens of the state overcome life 
circumstances and to improve the ability of local communities to address food 
insecurity and enhance equitable access to nutritious food is a statewide 
responsibility of statewide dimension.  It is therefore in the public interest, and it is 
the public policy of this state, to assist the Second Harvest Foodbank of Southern 
Wisconsin, Inc., in constructing a new facility to expand food processing, storage, 
and distribution.
(b)  The building commission may approve and the department may award a 
grant under sub. (2) of up to $15,000,000 to assist the Second Harvest Foodbank of 
Southern Wisconsin, Inc., in the construction of a facility, described in par. (a)
(10) (a)  The legislature finds and determines that preserving Wisconsin [s 
transportation heritage, expanding historical educational programs, and 
enhancing the state's tourism, thereby strengthening local economies is a statewide 
responsibility of statewide dimension.  It is therefore in the public interest, and it is 
the public policy of this state, to assist the Colfax Railroad Museum, Inc., in 
constructing and renovating museum facilities in the village of Colfax to protect 
and display historical railroad artifacts.
(b)  The building commission may approve and the department may award a 
grant under sub. (2) of up to $860,000 to assist the Colfax Railroad Museum, Inc., in 
the construction and renovation of museum facilities, as described in par. (a).
(11) (a)  The legislature finds and determines that enhancing tourism to the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 255 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  89
state, thereby strengthening local economies is a statewide responsibility of 
statewide dimension.  It is therefore in the public interest, and it is the public policy 
of this state, to assist the city of Green Bay in the construction and development of 
a public market.
(b)  The building commission may approve and the department may award a 
grant under sub. (6) of up to $3,000,000 to assist the city of Green Bay in the 
construction and development of a public market, as described in par. (a).
(12) (a)  The legislature finds that increasing access to learning materials in 
communities across the state will enhance and enrich the state's workforce, thereby 
strengthening the state's economy and increasing the resilience of the state's 
citizens.  It is therefore in the public interest, and it is the public policy of this state, 
to assist the city of Glendale in the construction of a new library that will serve the 
communities of Bayside, Fox Point, Glendale, and River Hills, as well as all of 
Milwaukee County through the Milwaukee County Federated Library System.
(b)  The building commission may approve and the department may award a 
grant under sub. (6) of up to $4,250,000 to assist the city of Glendale in the 
construction of a new public library, as described in par. (a).
(13) (a)  The legislature finds and determines that providing child care and 
out-of-school care that addresses provider shortages or assists meeting the demand 
for child care services in rural or remote areas in this state, thereby equipping the 
state's workforce to fully engage in the state's economy, is a statewide responsibility 
of statewide dimension.  It is therefore in the public interest, and it is the public 
policy of this state, to provide $2,000,000 to a nonstate organization or a city, 
village, town, county, or tribal government in this state for the purchase, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 256 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  89
construction, or renovation of a child care center in the southwest region of the 
state.
(b)  The building commission may approve and the department may award a 
grant under sub. (2) or (6) of up to $2,000,000 to assist in the construction, 
development, or renovation of a child care center, as described in par. (a).
(14) (a)  The legislature finds and determines that providing early child 
education and care that addresses provider shortages or assists meeting the 
demand for early child education services in areas of need equips the state's 
workforce to fully engage in the state's economy and is a statewide responsibility of 
statewide dimension.  It is therefore in the public interest, and it is the public policy 
of this state, to provide $2,500,000 to Wellpoint Care Network, Inc., to assist in 
renovating an existing facility in the city of Milwaukee to establish a child care 
center.
(b)  The building commission may approve and the department may award a 
grant under sub. (2) of up to $2,500,000 to Wellpoint Care Network, Inc., to assist in 
the renovation of a facility, as described in par. (a).
SECTION  90.  16.17 of the statutes is created to read:
16.17   Translation services.   From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) 
(cp), the department may provide assistance to state agencies for costs related to 
translation services that are provided to a state agency through a contract with the 
state.
SECTION  91.  16.19 of the statutes is created to read:
16.19   Civil legal services.   From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (ep), 
the department shall award grants to the Wisconsin Trust Account Foundation, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 257 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  91
Inc., to provide civil legal services.  The Wisconsin Trust Account Foundation, Inc., 
shall distribute the amount received as grants to programs that provide civil legal 
services, and those programs may use the grant funds to match other federal and 
private grants.  The grants may be used only for the purposes for which the funding 
was provided.
SECTION  92.  16.22 (2) (m) of the statutes is created to read:
16.22 (2) (m)  Administer the scholarship program under sub. (2m).
SECTION  93.  16.22 (2m) of the statutes is created to read:
16.22 (2m)   STATE  SCHOLARSHIP  PROGRAM .  There is created a scholarship 
program for recipients of awards disbursed under 42 USC 12604.  From the 
appropriation under s. 20.505 (4) (fm), the board shall award scholarships annually, 
on a dollar-for-dollar match with the federal award, under this subsection.  The 
board may prorate an award based on available moneys.  To be eligible for a 
scholarship under this program, an applicant shall provide proof of all of the 
following:
(a)  Current residency in this state or completion of service with the national 
service program in this state.
(b)  Current admission to an institution of higher education in this state.
SECTION  94.  16.23 of the statutes is created to read:
16.23   First class city school district audit response support.   (1)  
Subject to sub. (2), the department shall provide payments to a 1st class city school 
district to implement recommendations from instructional and operational audits 
of the school district initiated by the governor.  Moneys received under this 
subsection may be expended for items addressed in the audits, development and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 258 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  94
implementation of integrated financial reporting software, and facilitation of data 
compatibility with state and local finance systems.
(2)  No payment may be made under sub. (1) unless, at the time of payment, 
the secretary is satisfied that the school district is already making substantial 
progress on implementation of the audit recommendations.
SECTION  95.  16.29 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
16.29   (title)  Technical assistance and tourism promotion.
SECTION  96.  16.29 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 16.29 (1) (intro.) and 
amended to read:
16.29 (1) (intro.)  Annually, the department shall grant to the Great Lakes 
inter-tribal council the amount appropriated under s. 20.505 (1) (kx) to for the 
following purposes:
(a)  To partially fund a program to provide technical assistance for economic 
development on Indian reservations if the conditions under subs. (2) and (3) are 
satisfied.
SECTION  97.  16.29 (1) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
16.29 (1) (b)  To fund tourism promotion activities under the Native American 
Tourism of Wisconsin program if the condition under sub. (3) is satisfied.
SECTION  98.  16.29 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
16.29 (2) (a)  As a condition of receiving a grant under sub. (1) (a), the Great 
Lakes inter-tribal council shall establish a technical assistance program.
SECTION  99.  16.29 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
16.29 (3)  As a condition of receiving a grant under sub. (1), the Great Lakes 
inter-tribal council annually shall prepare a report on the technical assistance 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 259 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  99
program under sub. (2) and tourism promotion programs and submit the report to 
the department.
SECTION  100.  16.306 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
16.306 (2) (a)  From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (7) (fm), the 
department may award a grant to an eligible applicant for the purpose of providing 
housing and associated supportive services to homeless individuals and families to 
facilitate their movement to independent living if the conditions under par. (b) are 
satisfied.  The department shall ensure that the funds for the grants are reasonably 
balanced among geographic areas of the state that correspond to the geographic 
areas served by each continuum of care organization designated by the federal 
department of housing and urban development, consistent with the quality of 
applications submitted.
SECTION  101.  16.3063 of the statutes is created to read:
16.3063   Affordable housing and workforce development grants.   (1)  
DEFINITION .  In this section, Xlocal governmental unit Y means a city, village, town, 
county, or school district.
(2)  GRANTS .  From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (7) (fo), the department 
shall establish a competitive grant program to award grants to local governmental 
units and businesses, whether operated for profit or not for profit, for the purpose of 
funding the start-up of programs that focus on the development of the skilled 
workforce through the building or rehabilitation of affordable housing in their 
communities.  The department may establish eligibility requirements and other 
program guidelines for the grant program under this subsection.
SECTION  102.  16.3066 of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 260 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  102
16.3066   Grants to incentivize eliminating zoning barriers to 
affordable housing.   (1)  In this section, Xlocal governmental unit Y means a city, 
village, town, county, or federally recognized American Indian tribe or band in this 
state.
(2)  From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (7) (fq), the department shall 
establish a competitive grant program to award grants to local governmental units 
that adopt one or more of the following policy initiatives to eliminate zoning 
barriers for the creation or expansion of affordable housing:
(a)  Reduce minimum lot sizes and widths.
(b)  Reduce setback requirements to allow greater use of existing lots.
(c)  Increase allowed lot coverages to match historic patterns.
(d)  Adoption of a traditional neighborhood development ordinance, such as the 
model ordinance developed under s. 66.1027 (2).
(e)  Allow accessory dwelling units.
(3)  The department may establish eligibility requirements and other program 
guidelines for the grant program under this section.
SECTION  103.  16.3069 of the statutes is created to read:
16.3069   Whole-home upgrade grants.  (1)   From the appropriation under 
s. 20.505 (7) (fr), the department shall award one or more grants to Walnut Way 
Conservation Corp. for the purpose of funding home improvements in low-income 
households in a 1st class city that have one or more of the following goals:
(a)  Reducing carbon emissions.
(b)  Reducing energy burdens.
(c)  Creating cost savings.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 261 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  103
(d)  Creating healthier living environments.
(2)  The department may establish eligibility requirements and other program 
guidelines for the grant program under this subsection.
(3)  A recipient of a grant under this subsection may use the moneys awarded 
for the recipient [s administrative costs, in addition to the purpose described under 
sub. (1).
SECTION  104.  16.3077 of the statutes is created to read:
16.3077   Housing quality standards grants.   From the appropriation 
under s. 20.505 (7) (bp), the department shall award grants to owners of rental 
housing units in this state for purposes of satisfying applicable housing quality 
standards.
SECTION  105.  16.3085 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
16.3085 (2) (a)  From the appropriation under s. 20.505 (7) (kg), the 
department may award up to 10 grants, of up to $50,000 $75,000 each, annually to 
any shelter facility.
SECTION  106.  16.311 of the statutes is created to read:
16.311   Supplement for crime victim services grants.   (1)  From the 
appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (e), the secretary may supplement s. 20.455 (5) 
(km) if the secretary determines that the moneys received from the federal 
government for crime victim assistance under 34 USC 20103, together with the 
moneys received in each fiscal year from the crime victim services surcharge under 
s. 973.0452, are insufficient to provide grants to crime victim services 
organizations under s. 165.935.  If the secretary determines under this subsection 
that moneys received are insufficient, the secretary shall determine the amount of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 262 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  106
the supplement, but the secretary may not determine an amount that is larger than 
the difference between $44,500,000 and the sum of the moneys received in each 
fiscal year under 34 USC 20103 plus the moneys received in each fiscal year under 
s. 973.0452.
(2)  In determining under sub. (1) whether the moneys received are 
insufficient, the secretary may consider any factor, including:
(a)  The needs of rural and urban communities.
(b)  The amount of funding that a crime victim services organization receives 
as a percentage of its operating budget from the state or federal government.
(c)  The degree to which the services of a crime victim services organization 
are coordinated with other resources in the community and state.
(d)  The degree to which the services of a crime victim services organization 
are provided either directly or through a contract, subcontract, service agreement, 
or collaborative agreement with other organizations, entities, or individuals.
SECTION  107.  16.5185 (5) of the statutes is created to read:
16.5185 (5)  Beginning on June 30, 2025, in each fiscal year, the secretary 
shall transfer from the general fund to the transportation fund an amount equal to 
the amount calculated by the department approximating the marginal difference 
between the sales tax generated from the sale of automotive parts, accessories, 
tires, and repair and maintenance services in fiscal year 2019-20 and the fiscal year 
of the transfer.
SECTION  108.  16.5186 (2) of the statutes is renumbered 16.5186 (2) (a) (intro.) 
and amended to read:
16.5186 (2) (a) (intro.)  Beginning in fiscal year 2024-25 2025-26, on the 2nd 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 263 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  108
Monday in July in each fiscal year, the secretary shall transfer from the general 
fund to the local government fund 15 percent of the amount specified under s. 
25.491 (1) (b) and (c).  On an amount equal to the sum of all of the following: 
(b)  Beginning in fiscal year 2025-26, on the 2nd Monday in November in each 
fiscal year, the secretary shall transfer from the general fund to the local 
government fund 85 percent of an amount equal to the amount specified under s. 
25.491 (1) (b) and (c) minus the amount transferred under par. (a).
SECTION  109.  16.5186 (2) (a) 1. of the statutes is created to read:
16.5186 (2) (a) 1.  An amount equal to the sum of the total payments to be 
made in the fiscal year under ss. 79.05, 79.095, and 79.097.
SECTION  110.  16.5186 (2) (a) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
16.5186 (2) (a) 2.  An amount determined as follows:
a.  Subtract the amount determined under subd. 1. from the amount specified 
under s. 25.491 (1) (c).
b.  Multiply the amount determined under subd. 2. a. by 0.15.
SECTION  111.  16.5186 (3) of the statutes is created to read:
16.5186 (3) (a)  Notwithstanding sub. (2), in fiscal year 2026-27, on the 2nd 
Monday in July, the secretary shall transfer from the general fund to the local 
government fund 15 percent of the sum of the following amounts:
1.  The amount transferred from the general fund to the local government fund 
in fiscal year 2025-26.
2.  An amount equal to the percentage change determined under s. 25.491 (14) 
(b) 1. multiplied by the sum of the amount credited to the accounts under s. 25.491 
(2), (8), and (9) in fiscal year 2025-26.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 264 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  111
(b)  Notwithstanding sub. (2), on the 2nd Monday in November in fiscal year 
2026-27, the secretary shall transfer from the general fund to the local government 
fund 85 percent of the sum of the amounts described in par. (a) 1. and 2.
SECTION  112.  16.61 (2) (b) 1. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  113.  16.75 (1p) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  114.  16.765 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
16.765 (1)  Contracting agencies, the University of Wisconsin Hospitals and 
Clinics Authority, the Fox River Navigational System Authority, the Wisconsin 
Aerospace Authority, the Lower Fox River Remediation Authority, the Wisconsin 
Economic Development Corporation, and the Bradley Center Sports and 
Entertainment Corporation shall include in all contracts executed by them a 
provision obligating the contractor not to discriminate against any employee or 
applicant for employment because of age, race, religion, color, handicap, sex, 
physical condition, developmental disability, as defined in s. 51.01 (5), sexual 
orientation, as defined in s. 111.32 (13m), gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 
(7j), gender identity, as defined in s. 111.32 (7k), or national origin and, except with 
respect to sexual orientation, gender expression, and gender identity, obligating the 
contractor to take affirmative action to ensure equal employment opportunities.
SECTION  115.  16.765 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
16.765 (2)  Contracting agencies, the University of Wisconsin Hospitals and 
Clinics Authority, the Fox River Navigational System Authority, the Wisconsin 
Aerospace Authority, the Lower Fox River Remediation Authority, the Wisconsin 
Economic Development Corporation, and the Bradley Center Sports and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 265 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  115
Entertainment Corporation shall include the following provision in every contract 
executed by them:  XIn connection with the performance of work under this 
contract, the contractor agrees not to discriminate against any employee or 
applicant for employment because of age, race, religion, color, handicap, sex, 
physical condition, developmental disability, as defined in s. 51.01 (5), sexual 
orientation, gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), gender identity, as 
defined in s. 111.32 (7k), or national origin.  This provision shall include, but not be 
limited to, the following: employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer; 
recruitment or recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other 
forms of compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship.  Except 
with respect to sexual orientation, gender expression, and gender identity, the 
contractor further agrees to take affirmative action to ensure equal employment 
opportunities.  The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available for 
employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by the contracting 
officer setting forth the provisions of the nondiscrimination clause Y. clause.Y
SECTION  116.  16.84 (2m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  117.  16.855 (1p) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  118.  16.967 (7) (am) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
16.967 (7) (am) 2.  The minimum amount of a grant under this paragraph is 
determined by subtracting the amount of fees that the county retained under s. 
59.72 (5) (b) in the preceding fiscal year from $100,000 $140,000.  The department 
is not required to award a grant to a county that retained at least $100,000 
$140,000 in fees under s. 59.72 (5) (b) in the preceding fiscal year.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 266 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  119
SECTION  119.  16.967 (7) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
16.967 (7) (b)  In addition to any other grant received awarded under this 
subsection, the department may award a grant to any county in an amount not less 
than $1,000 $5,000 per year to be used for the training and education of county 
employees for the design, development, and implementation of a land information 
system.
SECTION  120.  16.967 (7m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
16.967 (7m)  (b)  If the department determines that a county has violated s. 
59.72, the department shall suspend the eligibility of the county to receive grants 
under sub. (7) and, after June 30, 2017, the county shall be eligible to retain only $6 
of the portion of each fee submitted to the department under s. 59.72 (5) (a).  After 
not less than one year, if the department determines that the county has resolved 
the violation, the department may reinstate the eligibility of the county for grants 
under sub. (7) and for retaining $8 of the full amount allowed to be retained from 
the portion of each fee submitted to the department under s. 59.72 (5) (a).
SECTION  121.  16.971 (2) (o) of the statutes is created to read:
16.971 (2) (o)  Assist the elections commission with information technology 
systems development for purposes of facilitating the registration of eligible electors 
under s. 6.256.
SECTION  122.  16.971 (2) (p) of the statutes is created to read:
16.971 (2) (p)  Develop and maintain artificial intelligence tools and 
infrastructure for the benefit of state agencies.
SECTION  123.  16.971 (18) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 267 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  123
16.971 (18) (a)  The department shall conduct cybersecurity emergency 
incident response for agencies and authorities.
(b)  For the department [s cybersecurity emergency incident response under 
par. (a), the secretary may allocate to the appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (bv) 
amounts, not to exceed $10,000,000 each fiscal year, previously allocated to general 
purpose revenue sum sufficient appropriations under ch. 20 and shall reduce the 
amounts allocated to such appropriations accordingly.
SECTION  124.  16.997 (2) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
16.997 (2) (d)  Require an educational agency to pay the department not more 
than $250 per month for each data line that is provided to the educational agency 
under the program established under sub. (1), except that the charge may not 
exceed $100 per month for each data line that relies on a transport medium that 
operates at a speed of 1.544 100 megabits per second.
SECTION  125.  17.03 (10m) of the statutes is created to read:
17.03 (10m)   If the office is filled by appointment of the governor for a fixed 
term by and with the advice and consent of the senate, the incumbent [s term 
expires or, if later, the governor submits his or her nomination for the office to the 
senate.
SECTION  126.  17.18 of the statutes is amended to read:
17.18   Vacancies, U.S. senator and representative in congress; how 
filled.   Vacancies in the office of U.S. senator or representative in congress from 
this state shall be filled by election, as provided in s. 8.50 (4) (b), for the residue of 
the unexpired term (4m).
SECTION  127.  18.08 (1) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 268 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  127
18.08 (1) (a) (intro.)  All moneys resulting from the contracting of public debt 
or any payment to be received with respect to any agreement or ancillary 
arrangement entered into under s. 18.06 (8) (a) with respect to any such public debt 
and any moneys transferred under s. 20.370 (5) (hq) or (hr) shall be credited to a 
separate and distinct fund, established in the state treasury, designated as the 
capital improvement fund, except that:
SECTION  128.  19.01 (4) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
19.01 (4) (b) 1.  The secretary of state and deputy secretary of state.
SECTION  129.  19.35 (3) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
19.35 (3) (c)  Except as otherwise provided by law or as authorized to be 
prescribed by law, an authority may impose a fee upon a requester for locating a 
record, not exceeding the actual, necessary and direct cost of location, if the cost is 
$50 $100 or more.
SECTION  130.  19.36 (12) of the statutes is created to read:
19.36 (12)  INFORMATION  RELATING  TO CERTAIN  EMPLOYEES .  Unless access is 
specifically authorized or required by statute, an authority may not provide access 
to a record prepared or provided by an employer performing work on a project to 
which s. 66.0903, 103.49, or 103.50 applies, or on which the employer is otherwise 
required to pay prevailing wages, if that record contains the name or other 
personally identifiable information relating to an employee of that employer, unless 
the employee authorizes the authority to provide access to that information.  In this 
subsection, Xpersonally identifiable information Y does not include an employee [s 
work classification, hours of work, or wage or benefit payments received for work on 
such a project.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 269 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  131
SECTION  131.  19.85 (1) (i) of the statutes is created to read:
19.85 (1) (i)  Consideration of information technology security issues affecting 
information technology systems over which the governmental body has jurisdiction 
or exercises responsibility.
SECTION  132.  19.851 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
19.851 (1)  Prior to convening under this section or under s. 19.85 (1), the 
ethics commission and the elections commission shall vote to convene in closed 
session in the manner provided in s. 19.85 (1).  The ethics commission shall identify 
the specific reason or reasons under sub. (2) and s. 19.85 (1) (a) to (h) (i) for 
convening in closed session.  The elections commission shall identify the specific 
reason or reasons under s. 19.85 (1) (a) to (h) (i) for convening in closed session.  No 
business may be conducted by the ethics commission or the elections commission at 
any closed session under this section except that which relates to the purposes of 
the session as authorized in this section or as authorized in s. 19.85 (1).
SECTION  133.  20.005 (1) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
20.005 (1)  SUMMARY  OF ALL FUNDS .  The budget governing fiscal operations 
for the state of Wisconsin for all funds beginning on July 1, 2025, and ending on 
June 30, 2027, is summarized as follows: [See Figure 20.005 (1) following]
Figure:  20.005 (1)
GENERAL FUND SUMMARY
2025]26 2026]27
Opening Balance, July 1 $    4,267,722,100 $    2,275,172,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
202025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 270 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  133
2025]26 2026]27
Revenues
Taxes $  24,515,877,400 $  24,603,990,800
Departmental Revenues
 Tribal Gaming Revenues 25,900 15,300
   Other            650,164,600            448,435,100
 Total Available $  29,433,790,000 $  27,327,613,800
Appropriations, Transfers, and Reserves
Gross Appropriations $  25,490,504,000 $  24,994,296,100
Transfers to:
 Local Government Fund 1,686,069,800 1,620,597,000
 Transportation Fund 156,557,700 166,238,600
 Veterans Homes Institutional 
Operations Account7,100,000 14,800,000
 Winnebago Mental Health Institutional 
Operations Account18,599,500 15,251,000
Compensation Reserves 222,926,800 352,564,000
Less Lapses         (423,140,400)         (482,465,300)
 Net Appropriations $  27,158,617,400 $  26,681,281,400
Balances
Gross Balance $    2,275,172,600 $        646,332,400
Less Required Statutory Balance         (110,000,000)         (115,000,000)
Net Balance, June 30 $    2,165,172,600 $        531,332,400
SUMMARY OF APPROPRIATIONS  ALL FUNDS
2025]26 2026]27
General Purpose Revenue $  25,490,504,000 $  24,994,296,100
Federal Revenue $  18,119,720,500 $  18,920,092,300
 Program (16,785,547,600) (17,575,969,600)
 Segregated (1,334,172,900) (1,344,122,700)12025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 271 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  133
2025]26 2026]27
Program Revenue $    8,386,466,600 $    8,434,895,200
 State (7,231,184,400) (7,280,008,700)
 Service (1,155,282,200) (1,154,886,500)
Segregated Revenue $    7,363,573,800 $    7,265,641,000
 State (6,985,876,000) (6,954,434,500)
 Local (149,326,400) (150,155,800)
 Service (228,371,400) (161,050,700)
GRAND TOTAL $  59,360,264,900 $  59,614,924,600
SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION RESERVES  ALL FUNDS
2025]26 2026]27
General Purpose Revenue $        222,926,800 $        352,564,000
Federal Revenue 38,839,400 60,574,500
Program Revenue 63,677,200 99,311,900
Segregated Revenue              39,438,200              61,508,400
TOTAL $        364,881,600 $        573,958,800
LOTTERY FUND SUMMARY
2025]26 2026]27
Gross Revenue
 Ticket Sales $       877,951,200 $       877,951,200
 Miscellaneous Revenue                    348,600                    348,600
$       878,299,800 $       878,299,8001
22025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 272 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  133
2025]26 2026]27
ExpensesSEG
 Prizes $       559,284,600 $       559,284,600
 Administrative Expenses             21,686,200             21,708,200
$       580,970,800 $       580,992,800
ExpensesGPR
 Administrative Expenses $          85,355,500 $          85,355,500
$          85,355,500 $          85,355,500
Net SEG Proceeds $       297,329,000 $       297,307,000
Total Available for Property Tax Relief
 Opening Balance $          28,152,300 $          17,566,000
 Net SEG Proceeds 297,329,000 297,307,000
 Interest Earnings 3,397,000 2,381,000
 Gaming-Related Revenue                             0                             0
$       328,878,300 $       317,254,000
Property Tax Relief $       311,312,300 $       299,688,000
Gross Closing Balance $          17,566,000 $          17,566,000
Reserve $          17,566,000 $          17,566,000
Net Balance $                          0 $                          0
SECTION  134.  20.005 (2) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
20.005 (2)  STATE  BORROWING  PROGRAM  SUMMARY .  The following schedule sets 1
22025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 273 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
forth the state borrowing program summary: [See Figures 20.005 (2) (a) and (b) 
following]
Figure:  20.005 (2) (a)
SUMMARY OF BONDING AUTHORITY MODIFICATIONS 
2025]27 FISCAL BIENNIUM
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS
Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection
 Agricultural conservation easements $          15,000,000
 Soil and water 10,000,000
Natural Resources
 Contaminated sediment removal 9,000,000
 Dam safety projects 15,000,000
 Knowles-Nelson Stewardship 830,000,000
 Nonpoint source 10,000,000
 Urban nonpoint source cost-sharing 11,000,000
Transportation
 Freight rail 5,000,000
 Design-build program increase 92,500,000
 Harbor assistance 15,000,000
 Menominee River dredging 15,000,000
 Southeast Wisconsin mega-projects           185,171,300
TOTAL General Obligation Bonds $  1,212,671,300*
*Excludes $1,725,000,000 of economic refunding bonds authorized.
REVENUE OBLIGATIONS
Environmental Improvement Program1
2
3
4
52025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 274 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
 Clean water and safe drinking water $        725,900,000
Transportation
 Transportation facilities and major highway projects 254,035,100
 State highway rehabilitation              65,000,000
TOTAL Revenue Obligation Bonds $    1,044,935,100
GRAND TOTAL $    2,257,606,400
Figure:  20.005 (2) (b)
GENERAL OBLIGATION DEBT SERVICE 
FISCAL YEARS 2025 ]26 AND 2026 ]27
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
20.115 Agriculture, trade and consumer protection, department of
(2) (d) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR $                    300 $                    300
(7) (b) Principal repayment and 
interest, conservation reserve 
enhancement GPR 869,800 840,000
(7) (br) Principal repayment and 
interest; agricultural 
conservation easements GPR 0 155,900
20.190 State fair park board
(1) (c) Housing facilities principal 
repayment, interest and 
rebates GPR 123,300 124,400
(1) (d) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 1,474,300 1,332,200
20.225 Educational communications board
(1) (c) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 1,811,300 1,744,100
20.245 Historical society1
2
32025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 275 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
(1) (e) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates GPR 5,329,400 5,184,000
20.250 Medical College of Wisconsin
(1) (c) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; 
biomedical research and 
technology incubator GPR 2,270,300 1,717,100
(1) (e) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 497,300 474,300
20.255 Public instruction, department of
(1) (d) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 1,183,400 908,500
20.285 University of Wisconsin System
(1) (d) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 200,064,900 205,728,700
20.320 Environmental improvement program
(1) (c) Principal repayment and 
interest  clean water fund 
program GPR 2,780,100 1,594,400
(2) (c) Principal repayment and 
interest  safe drinking 
water loan program GPR 3,384,900 2,842,600
20.370 Natural resources, department of
(7) (aa) Resource acquisition and 
development  principal 
repayment and interest GPR 49,698,500 50,760,100
(7) (cb) Principal repayment and 
interest  pollution 
abatement bonds GPR 0 0
(7) (cc) Principal repayment and 
interest  combined sewer 
overflow; pollution 
abatement bonds GPR 117,600 109,500
(7) (cd) Principal repayment and 
interest  municipal clean 
drinking water grants GPR 1,000 1,0002025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 276 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
(7) (ea) Administrative facilities  
principal repayment and 
interest GPR 433,200 416,000
20.395 Transportation, department of
(6) (ad) Principal repayment and 
interest, contingent funding 
of southeast Wisconsin 
freeway megaprojects, state 
funds GPR 15,995,400 15,527,400
(6) (ae) Principal repayment and 
interest, contingent funding 
of major highway and 
rehabilitation projects, state 
funds GPR 12,183,900 9,736,300
(6) (af) Principal repayment and 
interest, local roads for job 
preservation program, major 
highway and rehabilitation 
projects, southeast 
megaprojects, state funds GPR 38,083,600 24,753,600
20.410 Corrections, department of
(1) (e) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 33,715,400 31,339,600
(1) (ec) Prison industries principal, 
interest and rebates GPR 0 0
(3) (e) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 2,577,300 2,851,800
(3) (fm) Secured residential care 
centers for children and youth GPR 3,334,600 4,189,100
20.435 Health services, department of
(2) (ee) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 28,209,800 29,362,400
20.465 Military affairs, department of
(1) (d) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 6,505,800 6,385,900
20.485 Veterans affairs, department of
(1) (f) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 1,347,400 1,438,3002025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 277 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
20.505 Administration, department of
(4) (es) Principal, interest, and 
rebates; general purpose 
revenue  schools GPR 155,800 156,000
(4) (et) Principal, interest, and 
rebates; general purpose 
revenue  public library 
boards GPR 1,100 300
(5) (c) Principal repayment and 
interest; Black Point Estate GPR 164,600 184,300
20.855 Miscellaneous appropriations
(8) (a) Dental clinic and education 
facility; principal repayment, 
interest and rebates GPR 831,500 493,300
20.867 Building commission
(1)  (a) Principal repayment and 
interest; housing of state 
agencies GPR 0 0
(1) (b) Principal repayment and 
interest; capitol and executive 
residence GPR 2,112,800 1,817,600
(3) (a) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 48,890,000 58,708,900
(3) (b) Principal repayment and 
interest GPR 2,361,900 2,061,200
(3) (bb) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; AIDS Network, 
Inc. GPR 24,400 22,300
(3) (bc) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; Grand Opera 
House in Oshkosh GPR 43,700 11,400
(3) (bd) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; Aldo Leopold 
climate change classroom and 
interactive laboratory GPR 19,300 70,3002025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 278 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
(3) (be) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; Bradley Center 
Sports and Entertainment 
Corporation GPR 582,500 549,000
(3) (bf) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; AIDS Resource 
Center of Wisconsin, Inc. GPR 65,100 59,500
(3) (bg) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; 
Madison Children [s Museum GPR 20,300 18,600
(3) (bh) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; Myrick 
Hixon EcoPark, Inc. GPR 32,400 32,000
(3) (bj) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; Lac du 
Flambeau Indian Tribal 
Cultural Center GPR 15,400 21,400
(3) (bL) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; family justice 
center GPR 620,200 511,500
(3) (bm) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; HR 
Academy, Inc. GPR 3,000 9,100
(3) (bn) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; Hmong cultural 
center GPR 20,400 20,900
(3) (bo) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; psychiatric and 
behavioral health treatment 
beds; Marathon County GPR 368,300 365,200
(3) (bq) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; children [s 
research institute GPR 611,200 728,600
(3) (br) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates GPR 12,200 4,100
(3) (bt) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; 
Wisconsin Agriculture 
Education Center, Inc. GPR 340,900 326,7002025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 279 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
(3)  (bu) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; Civil War exhibit 
at the Kenosha Public 
Museum GPR 61,300 43,900
(3)  (bv) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; Bond 
Health Center GPR 27,500 113,600
(3)  (bw) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; Eau 
Claire Confluence Arts, Inc. GPR 1,024,200 862,700
(3)  (bx) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; Carroll 
University GPR 157,500 139,500
(3)  (cb) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; Domestic Abuse 
Intervention Services, Inc. GPR 33,600 34,500
(3)  (cd) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; K I 
Convention Center GPR 113,700 63,200
(3)  (cf) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; Dane 
County; livestock facilities GPR 554,400 769,000
(3)  (ch) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; 
Wisconsin Maritime Center 
of Excellence GPR 300,000 328,600
(3)  (cj) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; 
Norskedalen Nature and 
Heritage Center GPR 8,700 56,100
(3)  (cq) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; La 
Crosse Center GPR 312,800 309,400
(3)  (cr) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; St. Ann 
Center for Intergenerational 
Care, Inc.; Bucyrus Campus GPR 321,100 331,0002025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 280 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
(3)  (cs) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; Brown 
County innovation center GPR 322,200 319,500
(3)  (cv) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; Beyond 
Vision; VisABILITY Center GPR 357,800 359,500
(3)  (cw) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; projects GPR 804,700 1,125,900
(3)  (cx) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; center GPR 1,089,100 1,085,900
(3)  (cz) Museum of nature and 
culture GPR 903,800 2,134,000
(3)  (e) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates; parking 
ramp GPR                         0                         0
TOTAL General Purpose Revenue Debt 
Service $  475,682,200 $  473,766,000
20.190 State fair park board
(1) (j) State fair principal 
repayment, interest and 
rebates PR $       1,503,400 $       1,481,700
20.225 Educational communications board
(1) (i) Program revenue facilities; 
principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates PR 0 0
20.245 Historical society
(1) (j) Self-amortizing facilities; 
principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates PR 0 0
20.285 University of Wisconsin System
(1) (gj) Self-amortizing facilities 
principal and interest PR 173,372,700 160,898,800
20.370 Natural resources, department of
(7) (ad) Land sales  principal 
repayment PR 0 02025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 281 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
(7) (ag) Land acquisition  principal 
repayment and interest PR 0 0
(7) (cg) Principal repayment and 
interest  nonpoint 
repayments PR 0 0
20.410 Corrections, department of
(1) (ko) Prison industries principal 
repayment, interest and 
rebates PR 1,700 100
20.485 Veterans affairs, department of
(1) (go) Self-amortizing facilities; 
principal repayment and 
interest PR 3,600,300 3,458,800
20.505 Administration, department of
(4) (ha) Principal, interest, and 
rebates; program revenue  
schools PR 0 0
(4) (hb) Principal, interest, and 
rebates; program revenue  
public library boards PR 0 0
(5) (g) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; parking PR 2,076,800 2,041,600
(5) (kc) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates PR 24,810,700 20,600,000
20.867 Building commission
(3) (g) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; program 
revenues PR 0 0
(3) (h) Principal repayment, 
interest, and rebates PR 0 0
(3) (i) Principal repayment, interest 
and rebates; capital 
equipment PR 0 0
(3) (kd) Energy conservation 
construction projects; 
principal repayment, interest 
and rebates PR 1,218,900 1,728,2002025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 282 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
(3) (km) Aquaculture demonstration 
facility; principal repayment 
and interest PR                         0                         0
TOTAL Program Revenue Debt Service $  206,584,500 $  190,209,200
20.115 Agriculture, trade and consumer protection, department of
(7) (s) Principal repayment and 
interest; soil and water, 
environmental fund SEG $       4,715,200 $       4,674,900
20.320 Environmental improvement program
(1) (t) Principal repayment and 
interest  clean water fund 
program bonds SEG 4,500,000 4,000,000
20.370 Natural resources, department of
(7) (aq) Resource acquisition and 
development  principal 
repayment and interest SEG 0 0
(7) (ar) Dam repair and removal  
principal repayment and 
interest SEG 75,000 51,400
(7) (at) Recreation development  
principal repayment and 
interest SEG 0 0
(7) (au) State forest acquisition and 
development  principal 
repayment and interest SEG 13,500,000 13,500,000
(7) (bq) Principal repayment and 
interest  remedial action SEG 1,304,100 1,153,300
(7) (br) Principal repayment and 
interest  contaminated 
sediment SEG 2,461,900 2,268,300
(7) (cq) Principal repayment and 
interest  nonpoint source 
grants SEG 1,753,200 2,132,700
(7) (cr) Principal repayment and 
interest  nonpoint source SEG 2,913,200 3,568,9002025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 283 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
(7) (cs) Principal repayment and 
interest  urban nonpoint 
source cost-sharing SEG 2,980,000 3,617,500
(7) (ct) Principal repayment and 
interest  pollution 
abatement, environmental 
fund SEG 634,300 468,900
(7) (eq) Administrative facilities  
principal repayment and 
interest SEG 6,938,500 7,531,100
(7) (er) Administrative facilities  
principal repayment and 
interest; environmental fund SEG 877,100 955,500
20.395 Transportation, department of
(6) (aq) Principal repayment and 
interest, transportation 
facilities, state highway 
rehabilitation, major highway 
projects, state funds SEG 54,606,100 67,311,400
(6) (ar) Principal repayment and 
interest, buildings, state 
funds SEG 27,800 24,900
(6) (au) Principal repayment and 
interest, southeast 
rehabilitation projects, 
southeast megaprojects, and 
high-cost bridge projects, 
state funds SEG 102,083,800 81,764,500
(6) (av) Principal repayment and 
interest, contingent funding 
of major highway and 
rehabilitation projects, state 
funds SEG 10,786,500 13,152,200
20.485 Veterans affairs, department of
(4) (qm) Repayment of principal and 
interest SEG 15,700 15,700
20.866 Public debt
(1) (u) Principal repayment and 
interest SEG 0 02025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 284 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  134
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE 2025]26 2026]27
20.867 Building commission
(3) (q) Principal repayment and 
interest; segregated revenues SEG                         0                         0
TOTAL Segregated Revenue Debt Service $  210,172,400 $  206,191,200
GRAND TOTAL All Debt Service $  892,439,100 $  870,166,400
SECTION  135.  20.005 (3) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
20.005 (3)  APPROPRIATIONS .  The following schedule sets forth all annual, 
biennial, and sum certain continuing appropriations and anticipated expenditures 
from other appropriations for the programs and other purposes indicated.  All 
appropriations are made from the general fund unless otherwise indicated.  The 
letter abbreviations shown designating the type of appropriation apply to both 
fiscal years in the schedule unless otherwise indicated. [See Figure 20.005 (3) 
following]
Figure:  20.005 (3)
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
Commerce
20.115 Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection, Department of
(1) F OOD SAFETY  AND CONSUMER  PROTECTION
(a) General program operations GPR A -0- -0-
 Food inspection GPR A 4,800,000 4,800,100
 Meat and poultry inspection GPR A 7,436,900 7,299,600
 Trade and consumer protection GPR A 2,501,000 2,435,4001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
172025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 285 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
  NET APPROPRIATION 14,737,900 14,535,100
(c) Petroleum products; storage tank 
inventory GPR A -0- -0-
(g) Related services PR A 57,700 57,700
(gb) Food, lodging, and recreation PR A 12,519,500 12,519,500
(gc) Testing of petroleum products PR C -0- -0-
(gf) Fruit and vegetable inspection PR C 651,600 651,600
(gh) Public warehouse regulation PR A 128,400 128,400
(gm) Dairy trade regulation PR A 129,900 129,900
(h) Grain inspection and certification PR C 1,299,800 1,299,800
(hm) Ozone-depleting refrigerants and 
products regulation PR A -0- -0-
(i) Sale of supplies PR A 10,400 10,400
(im) Consumer protection; telephone 
solicitor fees PR A 391,600 391,600
(ip) Bisphenol A enforcement PR C -0- -0-
(j) Weights and measures inspection PR A 2,558,900 2,558,900
(jb) Consumer protection, information, 
and education PR A 147,800 147,800
(jm) Telecommunications utility trade 
practices PR A 522,900 522,900
(m) Federal funds PR-F C 6,872,500 6,911,300
(q) Dairy, grain, and vegetable 
security SEG A 1,434,800 1,439,300
(r) Unfair sales act enforcement SEG A 320,200 322,9001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 286 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(s) Weights and measures; petroleum 
inspection fund SEG A 929,500 930,000
(t) Petroleum products; petroleum 
inspection fund SEG A 5,397,600 5,399,100
(u) Recyclable and nonrecyclable 
products regulation SEG A -0- -0-
(v) Agricultural producer security; 
contingent financial backing SEG S -0- -0-
(w) Agricultural producer security; 
payments SEG S 200,000 200,000
(wb) Agricultural producer security; 
proceeds of contingent financial 
backing SEG C -0- -0-
(wc) Agricultural producer security; 
repayment of contingent financial 
backing SEG S -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 14,737,900 14,535,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 25,291,000 25,329,800 
 FEDERAL (6,872,500) (6,911,300)
 OTHER (18,418,500) (18,418,500)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 8,282,100 8,291,300 
 OTHER (8,282,100) (8,291,300)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 48,311,000 48,156,200 
(2) A NIMAL  HEALTH  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 4,102,100 4,272,300
(b) Animal disease indemnities GPR S 108,600 108,600
(c) Financial assistance for 
paratuberculosis testing GPR A -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 287 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(d) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 300 300
(e) Livestock premises registration GPR A 350,000 350,000
(g) Related services PR C -0- -0-
(h) Sale of supplies PR A 28,400 28,400
(ha) Inspection, testing and 
enforcement PR C 730,300 730,700
(j) Dog licenses, rabies control, and 
related services PR C 350,800 350,800
(jm) Veterinary examining board, dog 
licensing, rabies control program, 
and humane officers PR C 672,800 697,900
(m) Federal funds PR-F C 355,800 355,800
(q) Animal health inspection, testing, 
administration of the livestock 
premises registration program, 
and enforcement SEG A 518,000 518,000
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 4,561,000 4,731,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,138,100 2,163,600 
 FEDERAL (355,800) (355,800)
 OTHER (1,782,300) (1,807,800)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 518,000 518,000 
 OTHER (518,000) (518,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 7,217,100 7,412,800 
(3) A GRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 3,323,300 3,457,800
(at) Farm to school program 
administration GPR A 119,500 119,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 288 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(b) Agricultural exports GPR C 2,073,400 2,097,900
(c) Farmer mental health assistance GPR A 200,000 200,000
(e) Food waste reduction grants GPR A 100,000 100,000
(f) Meat processing tuition and 
curriculum development grants GPR A -0- 810,000
(g) Related services PR A -0- -0-
(h) Loans and grants for rural 
development and dairy exports 
promotion PR C 58,700 58,700
(i) Marketing orders and agreements PR C 129,400 129,400
(j) Stray voltage program PR A 273,400 273,400
(ja) Agricultural development services 
and materials PR C 97,600 97,600
(jm) Stray voltage program; rural 
electric cooperatives PR A 28,800 28,800
(L) Something special from Wisconsin 
promotion PR A 257,700 257,700
(m) Federal funds PR-F C 693,200 693,200
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 5,816,200 6,785,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,538,800 1,538,800 
 FEDERAL (693,200) (693,200)
 OTHER (845,600) (845,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 7,355,000 8,324,000 
(4) A GRICULTURAL  ASSISTANCE
(a) Aid to Wisconsin livestock 
breeders association GPR A -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 289 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(am) Buy local grants GPR B 500,000 500,000
(aq) Food security and Wisconsin 
products grants GPR C 30,000,000 -0-
(ar) Value-added agricultural practices GPR B 400,000 400,000
(as) Farm to school grants GPR A -0- -0-
(at) Farm to fork program GPR B 200,000 200,000
(b) Aids to county and district fairs GPR A 650,000 650,000
(c) Agricultural investment aids GPR B -0- -0-
(d) Dairy industry promotion GPR A -0- -0-
(dm) Dairy processing plant grant 
program GPR A 800,000 800,000
(ds) Dairy agriculture resilience 
investment now grant pilot 
program GPR A -0- 1,500,000
(e) Aids to World Dairy Expo, Inc. GPR A 20,100 20,100
(f) Grants for meat processing 
facilities GPR B 1,000,000 1,000,000
(k) Tribal elder community food box 
program PR-S A 2,000,000 2,000,000
(q) Grants for agriculture in the 
classroom program SEG A 143,900 143,900
(r) Agricultural investment aids, 
agrichemical management fund SEG B -0- -0-
(t) Transition to grass pilot program SEG A 500,000 500,000
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 33,570,100 5,070,100 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 290 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,000,000 2,000,000 
 SERVICE (2,000,000) (2,000,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 643,900 643,900 
 OTHER (643,900) (643,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 36,214,000 7,714,000 
(7) A GRICULTURAL  RESOURCE  MANAGEMENT
(a) General program operations GPR A 1,006,500 1,006,500
(ac) Sandhill crane damage 
reimbursements GPR C 1,875,000 1,875,000
(b) Principal repayment and interest, 
conservation reserve enhancement GPR S 869,800 840,000
(br) Principal repayment and interest; 
agricultural conservation 
easements GPR S -0- 155,900
(c) Soil and water resource 
management program GPR C 5,786,200 6,017,200
(da) Biodigester operator certification 
grants GPR A 50,000 50,000
(dm) Farmland preservation planning 
grants GPR A 210,000 210,000
(g) Agricultural impact statements PR C 196,400 196,400
(ga) Related services PR C 676,400 676,400
(gc) Industrial hemp and marijuana PR C 232,200 289,600
(ge) Marijuana producers and 
processors; official logotype PR C -0- -0-
(gm) Seed testing and labeling PR C 208,500 208,500
(h) Fertilizer research assessments PR C 255,600 255,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 291 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ha) Liming material research funds PR C 21,100 21,100
(i) Agricultural conservation 
easements; gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(ja) Plant protection PR C 217,500 217,500
(k) Agricultural resource 
management services PR-S C 369,700 369,700
(m) Federal funds PR-F C 1,636,000 1,636,000
(qc) Plant protection; conservation 
fund SEG A 1,909,300 1,909,500
(qd) Soil and water administration; 
environmental fund SEG A 2,899,300 2,919,800
(qe) Soil and water management; local 
assistance SEG A 9,309,000 9,591,300
(qf) Soil and water management; aids SEG A 5,725,000 5,725,000
(qm) Commercial nitrogen optimization 
program SEG B 1,600,000 1,600,000
(r) General program operations; 
agrichemical management SEG A 8,154,300 8,154,900
(s) Principal repayment and interest; 
soil and water, environmental 
fund SEG S 4,715,200 4,674,900
(tb) Principal and interest; 
agricultural conservation 
easements SEG A -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 292 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(tg) Agricultural conservation 
easements SEG A -0- -0-
(tm) Farmland preservation planning 
grants, working lands fund SEG A -0- -0-
(ts) Working lands programs SEG A 12,000 12,000
(u) Planning grants for regional 
biodigesters SEG A 250,000 250,000
(va) Clean sweep grants SEG A 1,000,000 1,000,000
(wm) Agricultural chemical cleanup 
reimbursement SEG C 900,000 900,000
(7)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 9,797,500 10,154,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 3,813,400 3,870,800 
 FEDERAL (1,636,000) (1,636,000)
 OTHER (1,807,700) (1,865,100)
 SERVICE (369,700) (369,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 36,474,100 36,737,400 
 OTHER (36,474,100) (36,737,400)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 50,085,000 50,762,800 
(8) C ENTRAL  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 7,521,700 7,598,500
(g) Gifts and grants PR C 718,200 718,200
(gm) Enforcement cost recovery PR A 11,000 11,000
(h) Sale of material and supplies PR C 9,600 9,600
(ha) General laboratory related 
services PR C 44,200 44,200
(hm) Restitution PR C -0- -0-
(i) Related services PR A 15,200 15,2001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 293 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(j) Electronic processing PR C -0- -0-
(jm) Telephone solicitation regulation PR C 1,079,300 1,104,900
(k) Computer system equipment, staff 
and services PR-S A 4,093,600 4,093,600
(kL) Central services PR-S C 722,900 722,900
(km) General laboratory services PR-S B 4,600,600 4,611,600
(ks) State services PR-S C 220,300 220,300
(m) Federal funds PR-F C 561,500 429,700
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C 2,082,400 2,082,400
(8)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 7,521,700 7,598,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 14,158,800 14,063,600 
 FEDERAL (2,643,900) (2,512,100)
 OTHER (1,877,500) (1,903,100)
 SERVICE (9,637,400) (9,648,400)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 21,680,500 21,662,100 
20.115 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 76,004,400 48,874,700 
PROGRAM REVENUE 48,940,100 48,966,600 
 FEDERAL (12,201,400) (12,108,400)
 OTHER (24,731,600) (24,840,100)
 SERVICE (12,007,100) (12,018,100)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 45,918,100 46,190,600 
 OTHER (45,918,100) (46,190,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 170,862,600 144,031,900 
20.144 Financial Institutions, Department of
(1) S UPERVISION  OF FINANCIAL  INSTITUTIONS , SECURITIES  REGULATION  AND OTHER  FUNCTIONS
(a) Losses on public deposits GPR S -0- -0-
(g) General program operations PR A 22,295,000 22,833,400
(h) Gifts, grants, settlements, and 
publications PR C 58,500 58,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 294 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(i) Investor education and training 
fund PR A 84,500 84,500
(j) Payday loan database and 
financial literacy PR C 900,000 900,000
(m) Credit union examinations, 
federal funds PR-F C -0- -0-
(u) State deposit fund SEG S -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE 23,338,000 23,876,400 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (23,338,000) (23,876,400)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 23,338,000 23,876,400 
(3) C OLLEGE  TUITION  AND EXPENSES  AND COLLEGE  SAVINGS  PROGRAMS
(tb) Payment of qualified higher 
education expenses and refunds; 
college tuition and expenses 
program SEG S -0- -0-
(td) Administrative expenses; college 
tuition and expenses program SEG A 118,300 118,300
(tf) Payment of qualified higher 
education expenses and refunds; 
college savings program trust fund SEG S -0- -0-
(th) Administrative expenses; college 
savings program trust fund SEG A 879,000 874,8001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 295 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(tj) Payment of qualified higher 
education expenses and refunds; 
college savings program bank 
deposit trust fund SEG S -0- -0-
(tL) Administrative expenses; college 
savings program bank deposit 
trust fund SEG A -0- -0-
(tn) Payment of qualified higher 
education expenses and refunds; 
college savings program credit 
union deposit trust fund SEG S -0- -0-
(tp) Administrative expenses; college 
savings program credit union 
deposit trust fund SEG A -0- -0-
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
SEGREGATED REVENUE 997,300 993,100 
 OTHER (997,300) (993,100)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 997,300 993,100 
20.144 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE 23,338,000 23,876,400 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (23,338,000) (23,876,400)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 997,300 993,100 
 OTHER (997,300) (993,100)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 24,335,300 24,869,500 
20.145 Insurance, Office of the Commissioner of
(1) S UPERVISION  OF THE INSURANCE  INDUSTRY
(a) State operations GPR A 975,000 1,255,000
(g) General program operations PR A 28,851,300 31,984,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 296 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(gm) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(h) Holding company restructuring 
expenses PR C -0- -0-
(km) Interagency and intraagency 
operations PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal funds PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 975,000 1,255,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 28,851,300 31,984,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (28,851,300) (31,984,100)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 29,826,300 33,239,100 
(2) I NJURED  PATIENTS  AND FAMILIES  COMPENSATION  FUND
(a) Supplement for claims payable GPR S -0- -0-
(q) Interest earned on future medical 
expenses SEG S -0- -0-
(u) Administration SEG A 3,078,900 3,078,900
(um) Peer review council SEG A 163,900 163,900
(v) Specified responsibilities, 
investment board payments, and 
future medical expenses SEG C 54,150,400 54,150,400
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
SEGREGATED REVENUE 57,393,200 57,393,200 
 OTHER (57,393,200) (57,393,200)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 57,393,200 57,393,200 
(3) L OCAL  GOVERNMENT  PROPERTY  INSURANCE  FUND
(u) Administration SEG A -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 297 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(v) Specified payments, fire dues and 
reinsurance SEG C 500,000 500,000
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
SEGREGATED REVENUE 500,000 500,000 
 OTHER (500,000) (500,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 500,000 500,000 
(4) S TATE  LIFE INSURANCE  FUND
(u) Administration SEG A 695,500 695,500
(v) Specified payments and losses SEG C 4,493,000 4,493,000
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
SEGREGATED REVENUE 5,188,500 5,188,500 
 OTHER (5,188,500) (5,188,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 5,188,500 5,188,500 
(5) W ISCONSIN  HEALTHCARE  STABILITY  PLAN
(b) Reinsurance plan; state subsidy GPR S 30,851,300 30,851,300
(m) Federal funds; reinsurance plan PR-F C 199,148,700 199,148,700
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 30,851,300 30,851,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 199,148,700 199,148,700 
 FEDERAL (199,148,700) (199,148,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 230,000,000 230,000,000 
20.145 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 31,826,300 32,106,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 228,000,000 231,132,800 
 FEDERAL (199,148,700) (199,148,700)
 OTHER (28,851,300) (31,984,100)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 63,081,700 63,081,700 
 OTHER (63,081,700) (63,081,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 322,908,000 326,320,800 
20.155 Public Service Commission
(1) R EGULATION  OF PUBLIC  UTILITIES
(g) Utility regulation PR A 18,987,200 19,195,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
332025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 298 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(h) Holding company and nonutility 
affiliate regulation PR C 902,900 916,600
(i) Relay service PR A 2,865,400 2,865,400
(j) Intervenor financing and grants PR B 750,000 750,000
(L) Stray voltage program PR A 318,100 318,100
(Lb) Gifts for stray voltage program PR C -0- -0-
(Lm) Consumer education and 
awareness PR C -0- -0-
(m) Federal funds PR-F C 6,463,400 5,977,600
(n) Indirect costs reimbursement PR-F C 50,000 50,000
(q) Universal telecommunications 
service; broadband service SEG A 5,940,000 5,940,000
(r) Nuclear waste escrow fund SEG S -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 30,337,000 30,073,300 
 FEDERAL (6,513,400) (6,027,600)
 OTHER (23,823,600) (24,045,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 5,940,000 5,940,000 
 OTHER (5,940,000) (5,940,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 36,277,000 36,013,300 
(3) A FFILIATED  GRANT  PROGRAMS
(a) Broadband expansion grants; 
general purpose revenue GPR C 400,000,000 -0-
(b) Brownfield renewable energy 
generation grants GPR B 1,000,000 -0-
(c) Nuclear energy feasibility study GPR B 1,000,000 -0-
(e) Energy innovation grant program GPR B 20,000,000 -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 299 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(r) Broadband expansion grants; 
transfers SEG-S C 2,000,000 2,000,000
(rm) Broadband grants; other funding SEG C -0- -0-
(s) Energy efficiency and renewable 
resource programs SEG A 542,500 542,500
(t) 911 fee administration SEG A 164,700 164,700
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 422,000,000 -0- 
SEGREGATED REVENUE 2,707,200 2,707,200 
 OTHER (707,200) (707,200)
 SERVICE (2,000,000) (2,000,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 424,707,200 2,707,200 
20.155 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 422,000,000 -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE 30,337,000 30,073,300 
 FEDERAL (6,513,400) (6,027,600)
 OTHER (23,823,600) (24,045,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 8,647,200 8,647,200 
 OTHER (6,647,200) (6,647,200)
 SERVICE (2,000,000) (2,000,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 460,984,200 38,720,500 
20.165 Safety and Professional Services, Department of
(1) P ROFESSIONAL  REGULATION  AND ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICES
(a) General program operations - 
executive and administrative 
services GPR A -0- -0-
(e) Statewide clinician wellness 
program GPR A 800,000 800,000
(g) General program operations PR A 20,786,700 21,120,700
(gm) Applicant investigation 
reimbursement PR C 113,000 113,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 300 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(h) Technical assistance; nonstate 
agencies and organizations PR C -0- -0-
(i) Examinations; general program 
operations PR C 1,482,700 1,482,700
(im) Boxing and unarmed combat 
sports; enforcement PR C -0- -0-
(jm) Nursing workforce survey 
administration PR B 9,000 9,000
(k) Technical assistance; state 
agencies PR-S C -0- -0-
(ka) Sale of materials and services - 
local assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(kb) Sale of materials and services - 
individuals and organizations PR-S C -0- -0-
(kc) Sale of materials or services PR-S C 35,600 35,600
(ke) Transfer of unappropriated 
balances PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal funds PR-F C 107,400 107,400
(n) Federal aid, local assistance PR-F C -0- -0-
(o) Federal aid, individuals and 
organizations PR-F C -0- -0-
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C -0- -0-
(s) Wholesale drug distributor 
bonding SEG C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 800,000 800,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 22,534,400 22,868,400 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 301 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 FEDERAL (107,400) (107,400)
 OTHER (22,391,400) (22,725,400)
 SERVICE (35,600) (35,600)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 23,334,400 23,668,400 
(2) R EGULATION  OF INDUSTRY , SAFETY  AND BUILDINGS
(a) General program operations GPR A -0- -0-
(b) Cost offsets for 3rd-party 
administered trade examinations GPR A 181,900 181,900
(g) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(ga) Publications and seminars PR C 21,000 21,000
(gb) Local agreements PR C -0- -0-
(h) Local energy resource system fees PR A -0- -0-
(j) Safety and building operations PR A 26,527,800 26,498,600
(ka) Interagency agreements PR-S C 108,300 108,300
(kf) Private on-site wastewater 
treatment system replacement 
and rehabilitation PR-S C 840,000 840,000
(ks) Data processing PR-S C -0- -0-
(L) Fire dues distribution PR C 29,603,000 29,603,000
(La) Fire prevention and fire dues 
administration PR A 901,200 901,200
(m) Federal funds PR-F C 473,300 473,300
(ma) Federal aid - program 
administration PR-F C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 302 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(q) Groundwater - standards; 
implementation SEG A -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 181,900 181,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 58,474,600 58,445,400 
 FEDERAL (473,300) (473,300)
 OTHER (57,053,000) (57,023,800)
 SERVICE (948,300) (948,300)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 58,656,500 58,627,300 
20.165 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 981,900 981,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 81,009,000 81,313,800 
 FEDERAL (580,700) (580,700)
 OTHER (79,444,400) (79,749,200)
 SERVICE (983,900) (983,900)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 81,990,900 82,295,700 
20.190 State Fair Park Board
(1) S TATE  FAIR PARK
(c) Housing facilities principal 
repayment, interest and rebates GPR S 123,300 124,400
(d) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 1,474,300 1,332,200
(h) State fair operations PR C 37,553,800 40,553,800
(i) State fair capital expenses PR C 180,000 180,000
(j) State fair principal repayment, 
interest and rebates PR S 1,503,400 1,481,700
(jm) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(m) Federal funds PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,597,600 1,456,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 39,237,200 42,215,500 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
342025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 303 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (39,237,200) (42,215,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 40,834,800 43,672,100 
20.190 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,597,600 1,456,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 39,237,200 42,215,500 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (39,237,200) (42,215,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 40,834,800 43,672,100 
20.192 Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation
(1) P ROMOTION  OF ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT
(a) Operations and programs GPR S 140,000,000 -0-
(b) Talent attraction and retention 
initiatives GPR C -0- -0-
(bd) Opportunity attraction and 
promotion GPR C 5,000,000 -0-
(bn) Child care fund GPR C -0- -0-
(c) Branch campus redevelopment 
grants GPR C -0- -0-
(m) Federal aid; programs PR-F C -0- -0-
(r) Economic development fund; 
operations and programs SEG C 45,995,000 45,845,000
(s) Brownfield site assessment grants SEG B 1,000,000 1,000,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 145,000,000 -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 46,995,000 46,845,000 
 OTHER (46,995,000) (46,845,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 191,995,000 46,845,000 
20.192 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 145,000,000 -0- 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 304 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 46,995,000 46,845,000 
 OTHER (46,995,000) (46,845,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 191,995,000 46,845,000 
Commerce
FUNCTIONAL AREA TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 677,410,200 83,419,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 450,861,300 457,578,400 
 FEDERAL (218,444,200) (217,865,400)
 OTHER (219,426,100) (226,711,000)
 SERVICE (12,991,000) (13,002,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 165,639,300 165,757,600 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (163,639,300) (163,757,600)
 SERVICE (2,000,000) (2,000,000)
 LOCAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,293,910,800 706,755,500 
Education
20.220 Wisconsin Artistic Endowment Foundation
(1) S UPPORT  OF THE ARTS
(a) Education and marketing GPR C -0- -0-
(q) General program operations SEG A -0- -0-
(r) Support of the arts SEG C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.220 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.225 Educational Communications Board
(1) I NSTRUCTIONAL  TECHNOLOGY1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
362025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 305 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(a) General program operations GPR A 3,592,600 3,592,900
(b) Energy costs; energy-related 
assessments GPR A 857,900 887,400
(c) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 1,811,300 1,744,100
(d) Emergency weather warning 
system operation GPR A 161,300 161,700
(eg) Transmitter construction GPR C -0- -0-
(er) Transmitter operation GPR A 16,800 16,800
(g) Gifts, grants, contracts, leases, 
instructional material, and 
copyrights PR C 15,612,200 15,623,700
(i) Program revenue facilities; 
principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates PR S -0- -0-
(k) Funds received from other state 
agencies PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal grants PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 6,439,900 6,402,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 15,612,200 15,623,700 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (15,612,200) (15,623,700)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 22,052,100 22,026,600 
20.225 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 6,439,900 6,402,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 15,612,200 15,623,700 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (15,612,200) (15,623,700)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 22,052,100 22,026,600 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 306 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
20.235 Higher Educational Aids Board
(1) S TUDENT  SUPPORT  ACTIVITIES
(a) Private institution grants for 
veterans and dependents GPR B 2,500,000 2,500,000
(b) Wisconsin grants; private, 
nonprofit college students GPR B 34,205,600 34,205,600
(c) Dual enrollment credential grants GPR A 500,000 500,000
(cg) Nursing student loans GPR A -0- -0-
(cm) Nursing student loan program GPR A 445,500 445,500
(co) Nurse educators GPR C 7,000,000 7,000,000
(cr) Minority teacher loans GPR A 259,500 259,500
(ct) Teacher loan program GPR A 272,200 272,200
(cu) School leadership loan program GPR C -0- -0-
(cx) Loan program for teachers and 
orientation and mobility 
instructors of visually impaired 
pupils GPR A 99,000 99,000
(d) Dental education contract GPR A 1,733,000 1,733,000
(dg) Scholarship program; scholarships GPR A 800,000 800,000
(e) Minnesota-Wisconsin public 
vocational school student 
reciprocity agreement GPR S -0- -0-
(fc) Independent student grants 
program GPR B -0- -0-
(fd) Talent incentive grants GPR B 4,458,800 4,458,8001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 307 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(fe) Wisconsin grants; University of 
Wisconsin System students GPR B 74,273,000 74,273,000
(ff) Wisconsin grants; technical 
college students GPR B 33,771,700 33,771,700
(fg) Minority undergraduate retention 
grants program GPR B 819,000 819,000
(fj) Impaired student grants GPR B 122,600 122,600
(fm) Wisconsin covenant scholars 
grants GPR S -0- -0-
(fp) Primary care and psychiatry 
shortage grant program GPR C -0- -0-
(fw) Technical excellence higher 
education scholarships GPR S 1,100,000 1,100,000
(fy) Academic excellence higher 
education scholarships GPR S 3,022,000 3,022,000
(fz) Remission of fees and 
reimbursement for veterans and 
dependents GPR B 6,496,700 6,496,700
(g) Student loans PR A -0- -0-
(gg) Nursing student loan repayments PR C -0- -0-
(gm) Indian student assistance; 
contributions PR C -0- -0-
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(k) Indian student assistance PR-S B 779,700 779,700
(kc) Tribal college payments PR-S A 405,000 405,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 308 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(km) Wisconsin grants; tribal college 
students PR-S B 578,200 578,200
(no) Federal aid; aids to individuals 
and organizations PR-F C 150,000 150,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 171,878,600 171,878,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,912,900 1,912,900 
 FEDERAL (150,000) (150,000)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (1,762,900) (1,762,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 173,791,500 173,791,500 
(2) A DMINISTRATION
(aa) General program operations GPR A 1,878,500 1,864,500
(bb) Student loan interest, loans sold 
or conveyed GPR S -0- -0-
(bc) Write-off of uncollectible student 
loans GPR A -0- -0-
(bd) Purchase of defective student 
loans GPR S -0- -0-
(ga) Student interest payments PR C 900 900
(gb) Student interest payments, loans 
sold or conveyed PR C -0- -0-
(ia) Student loans; collection and 
administration PR C -0- -0-
(ja) Write-off of defaulted student 
loans PR A -0- -0-
(n) Federal aid; state operations PR-F C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 309 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(qa) Student loan revenue obligation 
repayment SEG C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,878,500 1,864,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 900 900 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (900) (900)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,879,400 1,865,400 
20.235 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 173,757,100 173,743,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,913,800 1,913,800 
 FEDERAL (150,000) (150,000)
 OTHER (900) (900)
 SERVICE (1,762,900) (1,762,900)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 175,670,900 175,656,900 
20.245 Historical Society
(1) H ISTORY  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 20,341,500 20,263,500
(b) Wisconsin Black Historical Society 
and Museum GPR A 2,084,500 84,500
(c) Energy costs; energy-related 
assessments GPR A 1,023,300 1,229,300
(d) Wisconsin History Center GPR B 2,000,000 230,900
(e) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates GPR S 5,329,400 5,184,000
(h) Gifts, grants, and membership 
sales PR C 3,731,100 3,891,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 310 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(j) Self-amortizing facilities; 
principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates PR S -0- -0-
(k) Storage facility PR-S B 361,000 361,000
(km) Northern Great Lakes Center PR-S A 253,500 253,600
(ks) General program operations - 
service funds PR-S C 2,083,100 2,084,800
(kw) Records management - service 
funds PR-S C 371,900 371,900
(m) General program operations; 
federal funds PR-F C 2,299,800 2,193,500
(n) Federal aids PR-F C -0- -0-
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C 515,000 515,000
(q) Endowment SEG C 1,002,800 1,002,800
(r) History preservation partnership 
trust fund SEG C 5,092,200 5,279,000
(y) Northern great lakes center; 
operational support and 
interpretive programming SEG A 119,700 120,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 30,778,700 26,992,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 9,615,400 9,670,900 
 FEDERAL (2,814,800) (2,708,500)
 OTHER (3,731,100) (3,891,100)
 SERVICE (3,069,500) (3,071,300)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 6,214,700 6,401,800 
 OTHER (6,214,700) (6,401,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 46,608,800 43,064,900 
20.245 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 30,778,700 26,992,200 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 311 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
PROGRAM REVENUE 9,615,400 9,670,900 
 FEDERAL (2,814,800) (2,708,500)
 OTHER (3,731,100) (3,891,100)
 SERVICE (3,069,500) (3,071,300)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 6,214,700 6,401,800 
 OTHER (6,214,700) (6,401,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 46,608,800 43,064,900 
20.250 Medical College of Wisconsin
(1) T RAINING  OF HEALTH  PERSONNEL
(a) Medical student tuition assistance GPR A 1,926,600 1,926,600
(b) Family medicine education GPR A 7,461,400 7,461,400
(c) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; biomedical research and 
technology incubator GPR S 2,270,300 1,717,100
(e) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 497,300 474,300
(f) Psychiatry and behavioral health 
residency program GPR A 3,500,000 3,500,000
(k) Tobacco-related illnesses PR-S C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 15,655,600 15,079,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 15,655,600 15,079,400 
(2) R ESEARCH
(g) Cancer research PR C 247,500 247,500
(h) Prostate cancer research PR C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 247,500 247,500 
 OTHER (247,500) (247,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 247,500 247,500 
20.250 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 15,655,600 15,079,400 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 312 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
PROGRAM REVENUE 247,500 247,500 
 OTHER (247,500) (247,500)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 15,903,100 15,326,900 
20.255 Public Instruction, Department of
(1) E DUCATIONAL  LEADERSHIP
(a) General program operations GPR A 15,055,300 15,062,600
(ac) Farm to School program GPR A 250,000 250,000
(b) General program operations; 
Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of 
Hearing and Wisconsin Center for 
the Blind and Visually Impaired GPR A 14,887,500 14,887,500
(be) Early childhood special education; 
coaches GPR A 600,000 600,000
(c) Energy costs; Wisconsin 
Educational Services Program for 
the Deaf and Hard of Hearing and 
Wisconsin Center for the Blind 
and Visually Impaired; energy-
related assessments GPR A 566,400 594,600
(cm) Electric energy derived from 
renewable resources GPR A 1,900 1,900
(d) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 1,183,400 908,500
(dw) Pupil assessment GPR A 15,958,400 16,008,400
(e) Student information system, data 
collection and maintenance GPR C 3,400,000 3,400,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 313 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ee) Educator effectiveness evaluation 
system GPR A 973,300 973,300
(eg) Rural school teacher talent pilot 
program GPR A 1,500,000 1,500,000
(ek) Longitudinal data system, data 
collection and maintenance GPR A 3,038,100 3,038,100
(eL) WISElearn GPR A 1,159,000 1,159,000
(em) Academic and career planning GPR C 1,118,300 1,313,300
(en) Information technology systems 
modernization GPR C 1,000,000 500,000
(ep) Mental health training program GPR A 800,000 800,000
(er) Educators Rising; grants for local 
chapters GPR A 250,000 250,000
(f) Assessments of reading readiness GPR A 3,601,000 3,601,000
(fc) Office of literacy; literacy program GPR C 57,045,200 13,643,500
(fd) General educational development 
test fee payments GPR S 194,500 408,500
(fm) Value-Added Research Center GPR A -0- -0-
(g) Student activity therapy PR A 100 100
(gb) Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of 
Hearing and Wisconsin Center for 
the Blind and Visually Impaired; 
nonresident fees PR C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 314 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ge) Educator effectiveness evaluation 
system; fees PR C 4,309,500 4,309,500
(gL) Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of 
Hearing and Wisconsin Center for 
the Blind and Visually Impaired; 
leasing of space PR C 12,000 12,000
(gs) Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of 
Hearing and Wisconsin Center for 
the Blind and Visually Impaired; 
services PR C 7,000 7,000
(gt) Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of 
Hearing and Wisconsin Center for 
the Blind and Visually Impaired; 
pupil transportation PR A 1,210,000 1,210,000
(he) Student information system; fees PR C -0- -0-
(hg) Personnel licensure, teacher 
supply, information and analysis 
and teacher improvement PR C 5,874,600 5,874,600
(hj) General educational development 
and high school graduation 
equivalency PR C 131,500 131,500
(hm) Services for drivers PR-S A 174,400 174,400
(i) Publications PR C 136,000 136,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 315 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(im) Library products and services PR C 141,100 141,100
(j) Milwaukee Parental Choice 
Program and the parental choice 
program for eligible school 
districts and other school districts; 
financial audits PR C 159,700 159,700
(jg) School lunch handling charges PR A 9,999,200 9,999,200
(jm) Professional services center 
charges PR A 100,000 100,000
(jr) Gifts, grants and trust funds PR C 1,504,300 1,504,300
(jz) School district boundary appeal 
proceedings PR C 10,000 10,000
(kd) Alcohol and other drug abuse 
program PR-S A 700,800 700,800
(ke) Funds transferred from other 
state agencies; program 
operations PR-S C 3,151,900 3,151,900
(km) State agency library processing 
center PR-S A -0- -0-
(ks) Data processing PR-S C 12,000,000 12,000,000
(me) Federal aids; program operations PR-F C 57,832,400 57,200,200
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C 6,110,900 6,110,900
(q) Digital learning collaborative SEG A 1,105,500 1,105,500
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 122,582,300 78,900,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 103,565,400 102,933,200 
 FEDERAL (63,943,300) (63,311,100)
 OTHER (23,595,000) (23,595,000)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 316 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 SERVICE (16,027,100) (16,027,100)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,105,500 1,105,500 
 OTHER (1,105,500) (1,105,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 227,253,200 182,938,900 
(2) A IDS FOR LOCAL  EDUCATIONAL  PROGRAMMING
(ac) General equalization aids GPR A 6,074,990,000 6,281,090,000
(ad) Supplemental aid GPR A 100,000 100,000
(ae) Sparsity aid GPR A 38,630,800 38,850,800
(af) Belmont school library aid GPR A -0- -0-
(aq) Per pupil aid GPR S 676,394,300 711,244,300
(ar) Low revenue adjustment aid GPR A -0- -0-
(aw) Personal electronic computing 
devices; grant program GPR A -0- -0-
(az) Special Needs Scholarship 
Program GPR S 52,589,900 53,636,500
(b) Aids for special education and 
school age parents programs GPR S 1,117,726,800 1,162,435,900
(bb) Aid for high poverty school 
districts GPR A -0- -0-
(bc) Aid for children-at-risk programs GPR A -0- -0-
(bd) Additional special education aid GPR S 23,269,000 24,200,000
(bf) Aid for special education 
transition grants GPR A 3,600,000 3,600,000
(bg) Special education transition 
readiness grants GPR A 2,000,000 2,000,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 317 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(bh) Aid to county children with 
disabilities education boards GPR A 4,067,300 4,067,300
(bp) Health emergencies in learning 
places; grants GPR B 10,000,000 -0-
(br) School district consolidation aid GPR S -0- -0-
(bs) School district consolidation 
grants GPR A -0- -0-
(cc) Bilingual-bicultural education 
aids GPR A 10,089,800 10,089,800
(ce) Aid for English language 
acquisition GPR S 26,750,000 26,750,000
(cg) Tuition payments; full-time open 
enrollment transfer payments GPR A 8,242,900 8,242,900
(ck) Supplemental nutrition aid GPR S -0- 147,720,000
(cm) Reimbursement for school 
breakfast programs GPR C 5,537,900 5,592,600
(cn) Aids for school lunches and 
nutritional improvement GPR A 4,218,100 4,218,100
(cp) Wisconsin school day milk 
program GPR A 1,211,100 1,247,800
(cq) High cost transportation aid GPR A 22,800,000 22,800,000
(cr) Aid for pupil transportation GPR A 24,000,000 24,000,000
(cs) Aid for debt service GPR A 133,700 133,700
(cu) Achievement gap reduction 
contracts GPR A 109,184,500 109,184,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 318 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cy) Aid for transportation; open 
enrollment and early college credit 
program GPR A 454,200 454,200
(da) Aid for school mental health 
programs; pupil services 
professionals GPR A 74,752,000 79,237,000
(dj) Summer school programs; grants GPR A 1,400,000 1,400,000
(dk) Aid for career and technical 
education GPR B 10,000,000 -0-
(dp) Four-year-old kindergarten grants GPR A 1,350,000 1,350,000
(dr) Robotics league participation 
grants GPR A 1,000,000 1,000,000
(ds) Computer science education 
grants GPR A 5,000,000 5,000,000
(dt) Aid for comprehensive school 
mental health services GPR C 93,888,000 93,888,000
(du) Peer-to-peer suicide prevention 
programs; grants GPR A 500,000 500,000
(dv) Aid for period products GPR A 500,000 500,000
(dw) Water bottle filling stations; 
grants GPR A -0- 250,000
(eb) Grants for information technology 
education GPR A 875,000 875,000
(ef) Personal financial literacy grants GPR B 2,500,000 2,500,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 319 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ek) Educator effectiveness evaluation 
system; grants to school districts GPR A 5,746,000 5,746,000
(fg) Aid for cooperative educational 
service agencies GPR A -0- -0-
(fj) Grow your own programs; teacher 
pipeline capacity building GPR A -0- 5,000,000
(fk) Grant program for peer review and 
mentoring GPR A 2,410,000 2,410,000
(fm) Charter schools GPR S 125,731,300 133,962,900
(fp) Charter schools; office of 
educational opportunity GPR S 27,396,500 29,900,600
(fq) Charter schools; office of 
educational opportunity recovery 
charter schools GPR S -0- -0-
(fr) Parental choice program for 
eligible school districts and other 
school districts GPR S 309,215,400 322,405,300
(fs) Opportunity schools and 
partnership programs GPR S -0- -0-
(fu) Milwaukee parental choice 
program GPR S 334,381,200 347,906,400
(fv) Milwaukee Parental Choice 
Program and the parental choice 
program for eligible school 
districts and other school districts; 
transfer pupils GPR S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 320 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(fy) Grants to support gifted and 
talented pupils GPR A 474,400 474,400
(k) Funds transferred from other 
state agencies; local aids PR-S C 16,000,000 16,000,000
(kd) Aid for alcohol and other drug 
abuse programs PR-S A 1,284,700 1,284,700
(kg) Grants to replace certain race-
based nicknames, logos, mascots, 
and team names PR-S A 200,000 200,000
(km) Tribal language revitalization 
grants PR-S A 500,000 500,000
(m) Federal aids; local aid PR-F C 760,633,500 760,633,500
(s) School library aids SEG C 70,000,000 70,000,000
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 9,213,110,100 9,675,964,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 778,618,200 778,618,200 
 FEDERAL (760,633,500) (760,633,500)
 SERVICE (17,984,700) (17,984,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 70,000,000 70,000,000 
 OTHER (70,000,000) (70,000,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 10,061,728,300 10,524,582,200 
(3) A IDS TO LIBRARIES , INDIVIDUALS  AND ORGANIZATIONS
(b) Adult literacy grants GPR A 800,000 800,000
(c) Grants for national teacher 
certification or master educator 
licensure GPR S 2,910,000 2,910,000
(cj) Student teacher stipends GPR S -0- 9,000,000
(ck) Cooperating teacher stipends GPR S -0- 3,800,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 321 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cL) Library intern stipend payments GPR S -0- 62,500
(cm) Career and technical student 
organizations; grants GPR A 1,500,000 1,500,000
(d) Elks and Easter Seals Center for 
Respite and Recreation GPR A 73,900 73,900
(dn) Project Lead the Way grants GPR A -0- -0-
(eb) Grants for bullying prevention GPR A 150,000 150,000
(ef) Recovery high schools; grants GPR A 500,000 500,000
(eg) Milwaukee Public Museum GPR A 42,200 42,200
(eh) Holocaust education resource 
center GPR A 200,000 200,000
(f) Interstate compact on educational 
opportunity for military children GPR S 900 900
(fa) Arts for All GPR A 200,000 200,000
(fc) College Possible, Inc. GPR A 500,000 500,000
(fg) Special Olympics GPR A 500,000 500,000
(fr) Wisconsin Reading Corps GPR A 2,000,000 2,000,000
(fs) The Literacy Lab GPR A 1,092,500 1,125,300
(ft) Early literacy tutoring; grants GPR A 3,000,000 3,000,000
(fv) Graduation Alliance GPR A 3,000,000 3,000,000
(fw) Mentor Greater Milwaukee GPR B 150,000 150,000
(fz) Precollege scholarships GPR A 1,931,500 1,931,500
(ge) Special Olympics Wisconsin PR C -0- -0-
(mm) Federal funds; local assistance PR-F C 1,300,000 1,300,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 322 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ms) Federal funds; individuals and 
organizations PR-F C 62,868,500 62,868,500
(q) Periodical and reference 
information databases; Newsline 
for the Blind SEG A 3,486,300 3,582,900
(qm) Aid to public library systems SEG A 26,013,100 28,013,100
(r) Library service contracts SEG A 2,016,700 2,064,100
(s) Recollection Wisconsin SEG A 300,000 300,000
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 18,551,000 31,446,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 64,168,500 64,168,500 
 FEDERAL (64,168,500) (64,168,500)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 31,816,100 33,960,100 
 OTHER (31,816,100) (33,960,100)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 114,535,600 129,574,900 
20.255 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 9,354,243,400 9,786,310,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 946,352,100 945,719,900 
 FEDERAL (888,745,300) (888,113,100)
 OTHER (23,595,000) (23,595,000)
 SERVICE (34,011,800) (34,011,800)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 102,921,600 105,065,600 
 OTHER (102,921,600) (105,065,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 10,403,517,100 10,837,096,000 
20.285 University of Wisconsin System
(1) U NIVERSITY  EDUCATION , RESEARCH  AND PUBLIC  SERVICE
(a) General program operations GPR B 1,463,591,900 1,457,008,600
(am) Electric energy derived from 
renewable resources GPR A 4,367,000 4,367,000
(ar) Freshwater collaborative GPR C 2,631,100 2,631,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 323 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(b) Tommy G. Thompson Center on 
Public Leadership GPR A 1,604,500 1,604,500
(c) Graduate psychiatric nursing 
education GPR A 272,600 272,600
(d) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 200,064,900 205,728,700
(e) Grants to meet emergency 
financial need GPR C 130,000 130,000
(fd) State laboratory of hygiene; 
general program operations GPR A 13,610,100 13,610,100
(fj) Veterinary diagnostic laboratory GPR A 6,596,400 6,596,400
(gb) General program operations PR C 3,409,101,800 3,409,101,800
(ge) Gifts and nonfederal grants and 
contracts PR C 981,702,300 981,702,300
(gj) Self-amortizing facilities principal 
and interest PR S 173,372,700 160,898,800
(i) State laboratory of hygiene PR C 37,775,000 37,775,000
(ia) State laboratory of hygiene, 
drivers PR-S C 3,369,200 3,369,200
(je) Veterinary diagnostic laboratory; 
fees PR C 9,446,700 9,446,700
(k) Funds transferred from other 
state agencies PR-S C 56,898,100 56,898,100
(kg) Veterinary diagnostic laboratory; 
state agencies PR-S C 796,000 796,000
(Li) General fund interest PR C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 324 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(m) Federal aid PR-F C 1,892,814,000 1,892,814,000
(mc) Veterinary diagnostic laboratory; 
federal funds PR-F C 309,900 309,900
(q) Telecommunications services SEG A 1,107,500 1,107,500
(qe) Rural physician residency 
assistance program SEG B 887,600 887,600
(qj) Physician and dentist and health 
care provider loan assistance 
programs; critical access hospital 
assessment fund SEG B 310,000 310,000
(qm) Grants for forestry programs SEG A 145,600 145,600
(qr) Discovery farm grants SEG A 272,000 272,000
(rm) Environmental program grants 
and scholarships; Wisconsin Merit 
scholarships SEG C 317,300 317,300
(sp) Wisconsin Institute for 
Sustainable Technology SEG A -0- -0-
(u) Trust fund income SEG C 38,775,700 38,775,700
(w) Trust fund operations SEG C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,692,868,500 1,691,949,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 6,565,585,700 6,553,111,800 
 FEDERAL (1,893,123,900) (1,893,123,900)
 OTHER (4,611,398,500) (4,598,924,600)
 SERVICE (61,063,300) (61,063,300)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 41,815,700 41,815,700 
 OTHER (41,815,700) (41,815,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 8,300,269,900 8,286,876,500 
20.285 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,692,868,500 1,691,949,000 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 325 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
PROGRAM REVENUE 6,565,585,700 6,553,111,800 
 FEDERAL (1,893,123,900) (1,893,123,900)
 OTHER (4,611,398,500) (4,598,924,600)
 SERVICE (61,063,300) (61,063,300)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 41,815,700 41,815,700 
 OTHER (41,815,700) (41,815,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 8,300,269,900 8,286,876,500 
20.292 Technical College System Board
(1) T ECHNICAL  COLLEGE  SYSTEM
(a) General program operations GPR A 3,959,700 3,959,700
(am) Fee remissions GPR A 14,200 14,200
(d) State aid for technical colleges; 
statewide guide GPR A 129,574,900 134,574,900
(dp) Property tax relief aid GPR S 449,000,000 449,000,000
(e) Grants to meet emergency 
financial need GPR C 320,000 320,000
(f) Grants to district boards GPR C 36,124,200 27,124,200
(g) Text materials PR A 121,200 121,200
(ga) Auxiliary services PR C 15,200 15,200
(gm) Fire schools; state operations PR A 497,300 497,300
(gr) Fire schools; local assistance PR A 600,000 600,000
(h) Gifts and grants PR C 20,600 20,600
(hm) Truck driver training PR-S C 150,000 150,000
(i) Conferences PR C 72,600 72,600
(j) Personnel certification PR A 288,700 288,700
(k) Gifts and grants PR C 30,200 30,2001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 326 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ka) Interagency projects; local 
assistance PR-S A 2,000,000 2,000,000
(kb) Interagency projects; state 
operations PR-S A 263,600 263,600
(kd) Transfer of Indian gaming 
receipts; work-based learning 
programs PR-S A 594,000 594,000
(km) Master logger apprenticeship 
grants PR-S C -0- -0-
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 57,900 57,900
(L) Services for district boards PR A 51,300 51,300
(m) Federal aid, state operations PR-F C 3,431,500 3,431,500
(n) Federal aid, local assistance PR-F C 28,424,300 28,424,300
(o) Federal aid, aids to individuals 
and organizations PR-F C 800,000 800,000
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C 196,000 196,000
(q) Agricultural education consultant GPR A 87,600 87,600
(r) Veteran grant jobs pilot program SEG A -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 619,080,600 615,080,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 37,614,400 37,614,400 
 FEDERAL (32,851,800) (32,851,800)
 OTHER (1,697,100) (1,697,100)
 SERVICE (3,065,500) (3,065,500)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 656,695,000 652,695,000 
20.292 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 619,080,600 615,080,600 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 327 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
PROGRAM REVENUE 37,614,400 37,614,400 
 FEDERAL (32,851,800) (32,851,800)
 OTHER (1,697,100) (1,697,100)
 SERVICE (3,065,500) (3,065,500)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 656,695,000 652,695,000 
Education
FUNCTIONAL AREA TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 11,892,823,800 12,315,557,700 
PROGRAM REVENUE 7,576,941,100 7,563,902,000 
 FEDERAL (2,817,685,800) (2,816,947,300)
 OTHER (4,656,282,300) (4,643,979,900)
 SERVICE (102,973,000) (102,974,800)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 150,952,000 153,283,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (150,952,000) (153,283,100)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
 LOCAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 19,620,716,900 20,032,742,800 
Environmental Resources
20.320 Environmental Improvement Program
(1) C LEAN  WATER  FUND  PROGRAM  OPERATIONS
(a) Environmental aids - clean water 
fund program GPR A -0- -0-
(c) Principal repayment and interest - 
clean water fund program GPR S 2,780,100 1,594,400
(r) Clean water fund program 
repayment of revenue obligations SEG S -0- -0-
(s) Clean water fund program 
financial assistance SEG S -0- -0-
(t) Principal repayment and interest - 
clean water fund program bonds SEG A 4,500,000 4,000,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
332025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 328 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(u) Principal repayment and interest - 
clean water fund program revenue 
obligation repayment SEG C -0- -0-
(x) Clean water fund program 
financial assistance; federal SEG-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 2,780,100 1,594,400 
SEGREGATED REVENUE 4,500,000 4,000,000 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (4,500,000) (4,000,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 7,280,100 5,594,400 
(2) S AFE DRINKING  WATER  LOAN  PROGRAM  OPERATIONS
(a) Lead service line replacement GPR C 200,000,000 -0-
(c) Principal repayment and interest - 
safe drinking water loan program GPR S 3,384,900 2,842,600
(r) Safe drinking water loan program 
repayment of revenue obligations SEG S -0- -0-
(s) Safe drinking water loan 
programs financial assistance SEG S -0- -0-
(u) Principal repayment and interest - 
safe drinking water loan program 
revenue obligation repayment SEG C -0- -0-
(x) Safe drinking water loan 
programs financial assistance; 
federal SEG-F C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 203,384,900 2,842,600 
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 329 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 203,384,900 2,842,600 
20.320 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 206,165,000 4,437,000 
SEGREGATED REVENUE 4,500,000 4,000,000 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (4,500,000) (4,000,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 210,665,000 8,437,000 
20.360 Lower Wisconsin State Riverway Board
(1) C ONTROL  OF LAND  DEVELOPMENT  AND USE IN THE LOWER  WISCONSIN  STATE  RIVERWAY
(g) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(q) General program operations - 
conservation fund SEG A 284,000 284,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 284,000 284,000 
 OTHER (284,000) (284,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 284,000 284,000 
20.360 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 284,000 284,000 
 OTHER (284,000) (284,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 284,000 284,000 
20.370 Natural Resources, Department of
(1) F ISH, WILDLIFE , AND PARKS
(ea) Parks - general program 
operations GPR A -0- -0-
(eq) Parks and forests - operation and 
maintenance SEG S -0- -0-
(er) Parks - fees for campground 
reservations and online sales SEG C 1,495,000 1,495,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 330 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(es) Parks and forests - interpretive 
programs SEG C -0- -0-
(fb) Endangered resources - general 
program operations GPR A -0- -0-
(fc) Endangered resources - Wisconsin 
stewardship program GPR A -0- -0-
(fd) Endangered resources - natural 
heritage inventory program GPR A 387,300 387,300
(fe) Endangered resources - general 
fund GPR S 950,000 950,000
(fs) Endangered resources - voluntary 
payments; sales, leases, and fees SEG C 1,302,900 1,302,900
(ft) Endangered resources - 
application fees SEG C -0- -0-
(fu) Endangered resources program - 
gifts and grants; sale of state-
owned lands SEG C -0- -0-
(ga) Kenosha Dunes restoration GPR C 6,000,000 -0-
(gb) Education programs - program 
fees PR C 112,200 112,200
(gh) Horicon Marsh education and 
visitor center - program fees PR C -0- -0-
(gt) Habitat conservation plan fees SEG C 9,900 9,900
(hc) Indemnification agreements GPR S -0- -0-
(hk) Elk management PR-S A 111,100 111,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 331 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(hq) Elk hunting fees SEG C -0- -0-
(hr) Pheasant restoration SEG C 237,300 237,300
(hs) Chronic wasting disease 
management SEG A -0- -0-
(ht) Wild turkey restoration SEG C 779,100 779,100
(hu) Wetlands habitat improvement SEG C 532,600 532,600
(hv) Aquatic and terrestrial resources 
inventory SEG A 121,600 121,600
(hw) Pheasant stocking and 
propagation SEG C 530,100 530,100
(hx) Bonus deer permit fees; chronic 
wasting disease SEG C -0- -0-
(iu) Gravel pit reclamation SEG C -0- -0-
(jr) Rental property and equipment - 
maintenance and replacement SEG C 272,400 272,400
(kb) Walleye production; contracts GPR A 500,000 500,000
(kc) Sea lamprey control GPR C -0- -0-
(kf) Wild rice stewardship in ceded 
territory waters GPR A 262,300 283,100
(kg) Walleye production; revenue PR C -0- -0-
(kk) Fishery resources for ceded 
territories PR-S A 307,300 307,300
(kq) Taxes and assessments; 
conservation fund SEG A 297,000 297,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 332 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kr) Commercial fish protection and 
Great Lakes resource surcharges SEG C 25,000 25,000
(kt) Great Lakes vessel rental costs SEG C -0- -0-
(ku) Great Lakes trout and salmon SEG C 1,691,300 1,691,300
(kv) Trout habitat improvement SEG C 1,576,200 1,576,200
(kw) Sturgeon stock and habitat SEG C 197,500 197,500
(ky) Sturgeon stock and habitat - 
inland waters SEG C 58,600 58,600
(Lk) Reintroduction of whooping cranes PR-S A 75,600 75,600
(Lq) Trapper education program SEG C 48,800 48,800
(Lr) Beaver control; fish and wildlife 
account SEG C 36,200 36,200
(Ls) Control of wild animals SEG C 338,400 338,400
(Lt) Wildlife management SEG A -0- -0-
(Lu) Fish and wildlife habitat SEG S -0- -0-
(Lv) Deer management assistance 
program SEG C -0- -0-
(ma) General program operations - 
state funds GPR A 5,631,100 1,581,100
(mi) General program operations - 
private and public sources PR C 782,600 782,600
(mk) General program operations - 
service funds PR-S C 194,200 194,200
(mm) General program operations - 
federal funds PR-F C 335,600 335,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 333 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(mq) General program operations - 
state snowmobile trails and areas SEG A 211,500 211,500
(mr) General program operations - 
forestry funds SEG A 2,927,600 2,750,500
(ms) General program operations - 
state all-terrain vehicle and utility 
terrain vehicle projects SEG A 606,300 606,300
(mt) Land preservation and 
management - endowment fund SEG S -0- -0-
(mu) General program operations - 
state funds SEG A -0- -0-
 Wildlife management SEG A 14,651,200 15,151,200
 Southern forests SEG A 7,392,400 7,353,700
 Parks and recreation SEG A 23,136,500 22,686,300
 Natural Heritage Conservation SEG A 1,468,100 1,468,100
 Fisheries management SEG A 20,009,900 20,030,700
 Recreation and property 
management SEG A 6,664,000 6,664,000
 Fish, wildlife and parks program 
management SEG A 1,122,600 1,122,600
  NET APPROPRIATION 74,444,700 74,476,600
(my) General program operations - 
federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
 Wildlife management SEG-F C 10,206,100 10,206,100
 Southern forests SEG-F C 179,400 179,4001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 334 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 Parks and recreation SEG-F C 851,300 851,300
 Natural Heritage Conservation SEG-F C 3,223,900 3,057,500
 Fisheries management SEG-F C 7,520,300 7,520,300
 Recreation and property 
management SEG-F C 1,563,300 1,563,300
  NET APPROPRIATION 23,544,300 23,377,900
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 13,730,700 3,701,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,918,600 1,918,600 
 FEDERAL (335,600) (335,600)
 OTHER (894,800) (894,800)
 SERVICE (688,200) (688,200)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 111,284,300 110,972,700 
 FEDERAL (23,544,300) (23,377,900)
 OTHER (87,740,000) (87,594,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 126,933,600 116,592,800 
(2) F ORESTRY
(cq) Forestry - reforestation SEG C 100,500 100,500
(cr) Forestry - recording fees SEG C 202,200 202,200
(cs) Forestry - forest fire emergencies SEG C -0- -0-
(ct) Timber sales contracts - repair 
and reimbursement costs SEG C -0- -0-
(cu) Forestry - forestry education 
curriculum SEG A 850,000 850,000
(cv) Forestry - forestry emergency 
reserve SEG C -0- -0-
(cw) Forestry - Pattison 
communications tower SEG C -0- -0-
(cx) Forestry - management plans SEG C 316,800 316,8001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 335 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cy) Forestry - cooperating foresters 
and private contractors SEG C -0- -0-
(cz) Forestry - management of national 
forest land SEG C -0- -0-
(jq) Forestry-industry-wide strategic 
plan SEG C 775,000 -0-
(jr) Rental property and equipment - 
maintenance and replacement SEG C 245,500 245,500
(mi) General program operations - 
private and public sources PR C 183,000 183,000
(mk) General program operations - 
service funds PR-S C 405,200 405,200
(mv) General program operations - 
state funds; forestry SEG A 63,526,100 63,330,000
(mz) Forest fire emergencies - federal 
funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(nz) General program operations - 
federal funds SEG-F C 2,089,400 2,024,300
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 588,200 588,200 
 OTHER (183,000) (183,000)
 SERVICE (405,200) (405,200)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 68,105,500 67,069,300 
 FEDERAL (2,089,400) (2,024,300)
 OTHER (66,016,100) (65,045,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 68,693,700 67,657,500 
(3) P UBLIC  SAFETY
(aq) Law enforcement - snowmobile 
enforcement and safety training SEG A 1,521,600 1,555,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 336 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ar) Law enforcement - boat 
enforcement and safety training SEG A 4,529,700 4,543,600
(as) Law enforcement - all-terrain 
vehicle and utility terrain vehicle 
enforcement SEG A 1,950,900 1,948,900
(at) Education and safety programs SEG C 337,600 337,600
(au) Law enforcement-all-terrain 
vehicle and utility terrain vehicle 
enforcement communications 
technology SEG C 1,080,000 80,000
(ax) Law enforcement - water resources 
enforcement SEG A 327,100 318,500
(ay) Off-highway motorcycle safety 
certification program SEG C -0- -0-
(bg) Enforcement - stationary sources PR A -0- -0-
(ca) Law enforcement - technology; 
state funds GPR B -0- -0-
(cq) Law enforcement - technology; 
environmental fund SEG B -0- -0-
(cr) Law enforcement - technology; 
conservation fund SEG B -0- -0-
(ma) General program operations - 
state funds GPR A 2,329,300 2,076,200
(mi) General program operations - 
private and public sources PR C 4,200 4,2001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 337 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(mk) General program operations - 
service funds PR-S C -0- -0-
(mm) General program operations - 
federal funds PR-F C 921,200 926,200
(mq) General program operations - 
environmental fund SEG A 2,655,200 2,643,000
(mu) General program operations - 
state funds SEG A 32,170,300 31,511,600
(my) General program operations - 
federal funds SEG-F C 4,146,300 4,150,500
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 2,329,300 2,076,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 925,400 930,400 
 FEDERAL (921,200) (926,200)
 OTHER (4,200) (4,200)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 48,718,700 47,088,800 
 FEDERAL (4,146,300) (4,150,500)
 OTHER (44,572,400) (42,938,300)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 51,973,400 50,095,400 
(4) E NVIRONMENTAL  MANAGEMENT
(aa) Kewaunee Marsh remediation GPR C 18,000,000 -0-
(ac) Wisconsin River monitoring and 
study GPR A -0- -0-
(ad) Great Lakes contaminated 
sediment removal GPR C -0- -0-
(af) Water resources - remedial action GPR C 50,000 50,000
(ag) Water resources - pollution credits PR C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 338 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ah) Water resources - Great Lakes 
protection fund PR C 214,900 214,900
(ai) Water resources - water use fees PR C 892,400 892,400
(aj) Water resources - commercial 
vessel arrival fees PR C 353,300 353,300
(aq) Water resources management - 
lake, river, and invasive species 
management SEG A 2,585,500 2,585,500
(ar) Water resources - groundwater 
management SEG B 91,900 91,900
(at) Amcast superfund site SEG C 2,000,000 2,000,000
(au) Cooperative remedial action; 
contributions SEG C -0- -0-
(av) Cooperative remedial action; 
interest on contributions SEG S -0- -0-
(bL) Wastewater management - fees PR C 205,100 205,100
(bn) Air management - emission 
analysis PR C -0- -0-
(bo) Air management - permit review 
and enforcement PR A 1,292,700 1,292,700
(bp) Air waste management - 
incinerator operator certification PR C -0- -0-
(bt) Air management - mobile sources SEG A 1,610,300 1,610,300
(cg) Groundwater quantity 
administration PR A 733,300 733,3001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 339 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ch) Groundwater quantity research PR B 84,500 84,500
(cL) Air management - recovery of 
ozone-depleting refrigerants PR A 163,600 163,600
(cm) Air management - state permit 
sources PR A 1,581,400 1,581,400
(cn) Air management - asbestos 
management PR C 754,300 754,300
(co) Air management - stationary 
sources PR A 5,861,200 5,861,200
(cq) River and stream monitoring and 
study SEG A -0- -0-
(cr) Hydrologic evaluation and 
modeling SEG C -0- -0-
(cv) Air quality monitoring stations SEG B 30,000 30,000
(cw) Air management - motor vehicle 
emission inspection and 
maintenance program, petroleum 
inspection fund SEG A 24,500 24,500
(dg) Solid waste management - solid 
and hazardous waste disposal 
administration PR C 2,966,000 2,966,000
(dh) Solid waste management - 
remediated property PR C 1,122,100 1,122,100
(dq) Solid waste management - waste 
management fund SEG C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 340 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(dr) Solid waste management - 
department action on corrective 
action, closure, and long-term care SEG C -0- -0-
(dt) Solid waste management - closure 
and long-term care SEG C -0- -0-
(du) Solid waste management - site-
specific remediation SEG C -0- -0-
(dv) Solid waste management - 
environmental repair; spills; 
abandoned containers SEG C 2,292,700 2,292,700
(dw) Solid waste management - 
environmental repair; petroleum 
spills; administration SEG A 4,350,900 4,350,900
(dy) Solid waste management - 
corrective action; proofs of 
financial responsibility SEG C -0- -0-
(dz) Solid waste management - 
corrective action; moneys 
recovered from assessments and 
legal action SEG C -0- -0-
(eg) Solid waste facility siting board fee PR C -0- -0-
(eh) Solid waste management - source 
reduction review PR C -0- -0-
(eq) Solid waste management - dry 
cleaner environmental response SEG A -0- -0-
(fq) Indemnification agreements SEG S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 341 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(gr) Solid waste management - mining 
programs SEG C -0- -0-
(hq) Recycling; administration SEG A 1,373,400 1,373,400
(hr) Electronic waste recycling SEG C 175,000 175,000
(hs) Electronic waste cleanup SEG C -0- -0-
(ja) Dam safety projects GPR B -0- -0-
(jb) Sheboygan River dam grant GPR C -0- -0-
(jd) Steve Creek dam grant GPR C -0- -0-
(je) Mill Pond dam grant GPR C -0- -0-
(jf) Lake Mallalieu grant GPR C -0- -0-
(ks) Aquatic invasive species control; 
voluntary contributions SEG C 68,700 68,700
(ma) General program operations - 
state funds GPR A -0- -0-
 Drinking water and groundwater GPR A 3,515,400 3,583,800
 Water quality GPR A 8,565,800 8,941,800
 Air management GPR A 67,300 88,100
 Waste and materials management GPR A 639,500 660,300
 Remediation and redevelopment GPR A 1,440,200 1,502,600
 Environmental management 
program management GPR A 761,300 761,300
  NET APPROPRIATION 14,989,500 15,537,900
(mi) General program operations - 
private and public sources PR C 93,900 93,9001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 342 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(mk) General program operations - 
service funds PR-S C 52,800 68,700
(mm) General program operations - 
federal funds PR-F C -0- -0-
 Drinking water and groundwater PR-F C 6,236,200 6,236,200
 Water quality PR-F C 10,847,900 10,477,900
 Air management PR-F C 3,037,800 3,037,800
 Waste and materials management PR-F C 2,065,800 2,012,500
 Remediation and redevelopment PR-F C 3,614,100 3,422,300
  NET APPROPRIATION 25,801,800 25,186,700
(mq) General program operations - 
environmental fund SEG A -0- -0-
 Drinking water and groundwater SEG A 3,446,600 3,467,400
 Water quality SEG A 1,933,000 1,978,800
 Air management SEG A 1,614,500 1,614,500
 Waste and materials management SEG A 2,297,400 2,547,400
 Remediation and redevelopment SEG A 2,927,000 2,947,800
 Environmental management 
program management SEG A 651,300 651,300
  NET APPROPRIATION 12,869,800 13,207,200
(mr) General program operations - 
nonpoint source SEG A 310,700 310,700
(ms) General program operations - 
environmental fund; federal funds SEG-F C 1,470,700 1,470,7001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 343 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(mt) General program operations - 
environmental improvement 
programs; state funds SEG A 695,600 695,600
(mv) General program operations - 
brownfields SEG A 425,200 425,200
(mw) General program operations - 
PFAS SEG C 118,730,000 10,280,000
(mx) General program operations - 
clean water fund program; federal 
funds SEG-F C 2,022,400 1,500,200
(my) General program operations - 
environmental fund; federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(nz) General program operations - safe 
drinking water loan programs; 
federal funds SEG-F C 4,291,900 3,510,400
(pf) General program operations - 
PFAS; general fund GPR C 4,000,000 -0-
(pq) General program operations - 
PFAS innocent landowner 
remediation SEG C 5,000,000 -0-
(ps) Fire fighting foam SEG C -0- -0-
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 37,039,500 15,587,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 42,173,300 41,574,100 
 FEDERAL (25,801,800) (25,186,700)
 OTHER (16,318,700) (16,318,700)
 SERVICE (52,800) (68,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 160,419,200 46,002,900 
 FEDERAL (7,785,000) (6,481,300)
 OTHER (152,634,200) (39,521,600)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 344 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 239,632,000 103,164,900 
(5) C ONSERVATION  AIDS
(aa) Resource aids - nonprofit 
conservation organizations GPR A 415,000 415,000
(af) Resource aids - walleye 
production; grants GPR B -0- -0-
(aq) Resource aids - Canadian agencies 
migratory waterfowl aids SEG C 254,000 254,000
(ar) Resource aids - county 
conservation aids SEG C 148,500 148,500
(as) Recreation aids - fish, wildlife and 
forestry recreation aids SEG C 242,200 242,200
(at) Ice age trail area grants SEG A 74,200 74,200
(au) Resource aids - Ducks Unlimited, 
Inc., payments SEG C -0- -0-
(av) Resource aids - forest grants SEG B 1,397,900 1,397,900
(aw) Resource aids - nonprofit 
conservation organizations SEG C 76,600 76,600
(ax) Resource aids - forestry SEG A 148,500 148,500
(ay) Resource aids - urban land 
conservation SEG A 74,200 74,200
(az) Resource aids - urban forestry 
grants SEG B 699,600 699,600
(bq) Resource aids - county forest 
loans; severance share payments SEG C 100,000 100,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 345 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(br) Resource aids - forest croplands 
and managed forest land aids SEG A 1,237,500 1,237,500
(bs) Resource aids - county forest loans SEG A 616,200 616,200
(bt) Resource aids - county forest 
project loans SEG C 396,000 396,000
(bu) Resource aids - county forest 
project loans; severance share 
payments SEG C 350,000 350,000
(bv) Resource aids - county forests, 
forest croplands and managed 
forest land aids SEG S 2,230,000 2,230,000
(bw) Resource aids - county sustainable 
forestry and county forest 
administration grants SEG B 2,363,900 2,363,900
(bx) Resource aids - national forest 
income aids SEG-F C 782,200 782,200
(by) Resource aids - fire suppression 
grants SEG B 448,000 448,000
(bz) Resource aids - forestry outdoor 
activity grants SEG C -0- -0-
(cb) Recreation aids - snowmobile trail 
and area aids; general fund GPR A -0- -0-
(cq) Recreation aids - recreational 
boating and other projects SEG C 400,000 400,000
(cr) Recreation aids - county 
snowmobile trail and area aids SEG C 5,675,400 5,675,4001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 346 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cs) Recreation aids - snowmobile trail 
areas SEG C 5,319,500 5,319,500
(ct) Recreation aids - all-terrain 
vehicle and utility terrain vehicle 
project aids; gas tax payment SEG C 3,097,700 3,097,700
(cu) Recreation aids - all-terrain 
vehicle and utility terrain vehicle 
project aids SEG C 2,874,600 2,874,600
(cv) Recreation aids - Southeastern 
Wisconsin Fox River Commission SEG C 100,000 100,000
(cw) Recreation aids - supplemental 
snowmobile trail aids SEG C 1,117,500 1,117,500
(cx) Recreation aids - all-terrain 
vehicle and utility terrain vehicle 
safety enhancement program SEG S 320,800 320,800
(cy) Recreation and resource aids, 
federal funds SEG-F C 3,162,100 3,162,100
(cz) Resource aids - interpretive center SEG A 27,000 27,000
(da) Aids in lieu of taxes - general fund GPR S 9,872,100 9,872,100
(dq) Aids in lieu of taxes - lands 
acquired before a specified date SEG S 780,000 780,000
(dr) Aids in lieu of taxes - lands 
acquired after a specified date SEG S 6,570,100 6,570,100
(dx) Resource aids - payment in lieu of 
taxes; federal SEG-F C 440,000 440,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 347 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(dy) Resource aids - distribution of 
closed acreage fees SEG A -0- -0-
(ea) Enforcement aids - spearfishing 
enforcement GPR C -0- -0-
(eq) Enforcement aids - boating 
enforcement SEG A 2,316,600 2,316,600
(er) Enforcement aids - all-terrain 
vehicle and utility terrain vehicle 
enforcement SEG A 1,300,000 1,300,000
(es) Enforcement aids - snowmobiling 
enforcement SEG A 596,000 596,000
(ex) Enforcement aids - federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(fc) Summer tribal youth program GPR A 250,000 250,000
(fq) Wildlife damage claims and 
abatement SEG C 2,950,000 2,950,000
(fr) Wildlife abatement and control 
grants SEG B 24,700 24,700
(fs) Venison and wild turkey 
processing SEG B 300,000 300,000
(ft) Venison and wild turkey 
processing; voluntary 
contributions SEG C 14,800 14,800
(fu) Deer carcass disposal sites SEG C 1,000,000 -0-
(fv) Wolf depredation program SEG C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 348 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(fw) Resource Aids - Natural Resources 
Foundation of Wisconsin 
payments SEG C 20,000 20,000
(fy) Resource aids - wildfire 
suppression reimbursement SEG S 246,200 246,200
(ha) Grants to nonprofit conservation 
organizations GPR C -0- 5,000,000
(hb) Tribal co-management program GPR C -0- 3,000,000
(hk) Fish hatcheries operated by tribes PR-S A 1,000,000 1,000,000
(hq) Department land acquisition SEG C 5,000,000 6,000,000
(hr) County forest grants SEG C 3,000,000 3,000,000
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 10,537,100 18,537,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,000,000 1,000,000 
 SERVICE (1,000,000) (1,000,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 58,292,500 58,292,500 
 FEDERAL (4,384,300) (4,384,300)
 OTHER (53,908,200) (53,908,200)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 69,829,600 77,829,600 
(6) E NVIRONMENTAL  AIDS
(aa) Environmental aids - winter road 
safety improvement GPR C 5,000,000 -0-
(ag) Environmental aids - nonpoint 
source; general fund GPR B -0- -0-
(aq) Environmental aids; nonpoint 
source SEG B 300,000 300,000
(ar) Environmental aids - lake 
protection SEG C 2,252,600 2,252,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 349 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(as) Environmental aids - invasive 
aquatic species and lake 
monitoring and protection SEG B 4,029,100 4,029,100
(au) Environmental aids - river 
protection; environmental fund SEG A -0- -0-
(av) Environmental aids - river 
protection; lake monitoring and 
protection contracts; conservation 
fund SEG B 289,500 289,500
(aw) Environmental aids - river 
protection, nonprofit organization 
contracts SEG C -0- -0-
(bu) Financial assistance for 
responsible units SEG A 19,000,000 19,000,000
(bw) Recycling consolidation grants SEG A 1,000,000 1,000,000
(cf) Environmental aids - 
compensation for well 
contamination and abandonment - 
general fund GPR A -0- -0-
(cm) Environmental aids - federal 
funds PR-F C 800,000 800,000
(cr) Environmental aids - 
compensation for well 
contamination and abandonment SEG C 2,632,800 2,612,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 350 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cs) Environmental aids - assistance 
for private well owners; PFAS  
fund SEG C -0- -0-
(da) Environmental planning aids - 
local water quality planning GPR A 196,400 196,400
(dg) Environmental aids - urban 
nonpoint source; general fund GPR B -0- -0-
(dm) Environmental planning aids - 
federal funds PR-F C 150,000 150,000
(dq) Environmental aids - urban 
nonpoint source SEG B 500,000 500,000
(ed) Environmental aids - PFAS 
municipal grant program - general 
fund GPR C -0- -0-
(ef) Brownfields revolving loan 
repayments PR C -0- -0-
(eg) Groundwater mitigation and local 
assistance PR C -0- -0-
(eh) Brownfields revolving loan funds 
administered for other entity PR C -0- -0-
(em) Federal brownfields revolving loan 
funds PR-F C 1,000,000 1,000,000
(eq) Environmental aids - dry cleaner 
environmental response SEG B -0- -0-
(er) Vapor control system removal 
grants SEG B -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 351 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(es) Environmental aids - PFAS 
municipal grant program - 
environmental fund SEG C -0- -0-
(et) Environmental aids - Revitalize 
Wisconsin program SEG B 3,000,000 3,000,000
(eu) Environmental aids - waste 
removal and sampling SEG B 971,800 1,971,800
(ev) Reimbursement for disposal of 
contaminated sediment SEG A -0- -0-
(ew) Environmental aids - county well 
testing grant program SEG C 2,000,000 2,000,000
(fr) Petroleum storage environmental 
remedial action; awards SEG B -0- -0-
(fv) Removal of underground 
petroleum storage tanks SEG A 100,000 100,000
(6)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 5,196,400 196,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,950,000 1,950,000 
 FEDERAL (1,950,000) (1,950,000)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 36,075,800 37,055,000 
 OTHER (36,075,800) (37,055,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 43,222,200 39,201,400 
(7) D EBT SERVICE  AND DEVELOPMENT
(aa) Resource acquisition and 
development - principal 
repayment and interest GPR S 49,698,500 50,760,100
(ad) Land sales - principal repayment PR C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 352 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ag) Land acquisition - principal 
repayment and interest PR C -0- -0-
(aq) Resource acquisition and 
development - principal 
repayment and interest SEG S -0- -0-
(ar) Dam repair and removal - 
principal repayment and interest SEG S 75,000 51,400
(at) Recreation development - 
principal repayment and interest SEG S -0- -0-
(au) State forest acquisition and 
development - principal 
repayment and interest SEG A 13,500,000 13,500,000
(bd) Building demolition GPR C 500,000 -0-
(bq) Principal repayment and interest - 
remedial action SEG S 1,304,100 1,153,300
(br) Principal repayment and interest - 
contaminated sediment SEG S 2,461,900 2,268,300
(cb) Principal repayment and interest - 
pollution abatement bonds GPR S -0- -0-
(cc) Principal repayment and interest - 
combined sewer overflow; 
pollution abatement bonds GPR S 117,600 109,500
(cd) Principal repayment and interest - 
municipal clean drinking water 
grants GPR S 1,000 1,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 353 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cg) Principal repayment and interest - 
nonpoint repayments PR C -0- -0-
(cq) Principal repayment and interest - 
nonpoint source grants SEG S 1,753,200 2,132,700
(cr) Principal repayment and interest - 
nonpoint source SEG S 2,913,200 3,568,900
(cs) Principal repayment and interest - 
urban nonpoint source cost-
sharing SEG S 2,980,000 3,617,500
(ct) Principal and interest - pollution 
abatement, environmental fund SEG S 634,300 468,900
(dr) Petroleum inspection fund - 
revenue obligation repayment SEG S -0- -0-
(ea) Administrative facilities - 
principal repayment and interest GPR S 433,200 416,000
(eq) Administrative facilities - 
principal repayment and interest SEG S 6,938,500 7,531,100
(er) Administrative facilities - 
principal repayment and interest; 
environmental fund SEG S 877,100 955,500
(fa) Resource maintenance and 
development - state funds GPR C 1,903,000 1,903,000
(fk) Resource acquisition and 
development - service funds; 
transportation moneys PR-S C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 354 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(fr) Resource acquisition and 
development  - boating access to 
southeastern lakes SEG C 92,400 92,400
(fs) Resource acquisition and 
development - state funds SEG C 1,109,900 1,109,900
(ft) Resource acquisition and 
development - boating access SEG C 184,800 184,800
(fu) Resource acquisition and 
development - nonmotorized 
boating improvements SEG C -0- -0-
(fw) Resource acquisition and 
development - Mississippi and St. 
Croix rivers management SEG C 57,700 57,700
(fy) Resource acquisition and 
development - federal funds SEG-F C 9,112,800 9,112,800
(gg) Ice age trail - gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(gq) State trails - gifts and grants SEG C -0- -0-
(ha) Facilities acquisition, development 
and maintenance GPR C 372,600 372,600
(hq) Facilities acquisition, development 
and maintenance - conservation 
fund SEG C 586,200 586,200
(ht) Property development - 
conservation fund SEG C 1,660,600 1,660,600
(hu) Parks and trails development - 
conservation fund SEG C 929,000 929,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 355 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(jr) Rental property and equipment - 
maintenance and replacement SEG C 180,000 180,000
(mc) Resource maintenance and 
development - state park, forest, 
and riverway roads; general fund GPR C -0- -0-
(mi) General program operations - 
private and public sources PR C -0- -0-
(mk) General program operations - 
service funds PR-S C -0- -0-
(mr) Resource maintenance and 
development - state park, forest, 
and riverway roads; conservation 
fund SEG C 6,109,500 6,109,500
(7)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 53,025,900 53,562,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 53,460,200 55,270,500 
 FEDERAL (9,112,800) (9,112,800)
 OTHER (44,347,400) (46,157,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 106,486,100 108,832,700 
(8) I NTERNAL  SERVICES
(ir) Promotional activities and 
publications SEG C 82,200 82,200
(iw) Statewide recycling 
administration SEG A 453,900 456,000
(ma) General program operations - 
state funds GPR A 3,584,900 3,587,2001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 356 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(mg) General program operations - 
stationary sources PR A -0- -0-
(mi) General program operations - 
private and public sources PR C -0- -0-
(mk) General program operations - 
service funds PR-S C 3,947,600 3,947,600
(mq) General program operations - 
mobile sources SEG A 1,074,500 1,079,800
(mr) General program operations - 
environmental improvement fund SEG A 372,000 374,000
(mt) Equipment and services SEG-S C -0- -0-
(mu) General program operations - 
state funds SEG A 29,831,800 28,368,900
(mv) General program operations - 
environmental fund SEG A 2,460,600 2,466,600
(my) Land and property management - 
federal funds SEG-F C 1,590,600 1,590,600
(mz) Indirect cost reimbursements SEG-F C 9,076,600 9,087,000
(ni) Geographic information systems, 
general program operations - other 
funds PR C 32,700 32,700
(nk) Geographic information systems, 
general program operations - 
service funds PR-S C 1,446,000 1,446,000
(zq) Gifts and donations SEG C -0- -0-
(8)  PROGRAM  TOTALS1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 357 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 3,584,900 3,587,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 5,426,300 5,426,300 
 OTHER (32,700) (32,700)
 SERVICE (5,393,600) (5,393,600)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 44,942,200 43,505,100 
 FEDERAL (10,667,200) (10,677,600)
 OTHER (34,275,000) (32,827,500)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 53,953,400 52,518,600 
(9) E XTERNAL  SERVICES
(ag) Animal feeding operations - fees PR C 122,800 122,800
(ap) Animal feeding operations SEG A 1,853,700 1,909,300
(aq) Water resources management - 
lake, river, and invasive species 
management SEG A 919,900 919,900
(as) Water resources - trading water 
pollution credits SEG C -0- -0-
(at) Watershed - nonpoint source 
contracts SEG B 1,129,600 1,129,600
(aw) Water resources-public health SEG A 24,700 24,700
(bg) Water regulation and zoning - 
computer access fees PR C -0- -0-
(bi) Water regulation and zoning - fees PR C 1,702,000 1,702,000
(bj) Storm water management - fees PR C 2,369,100 2,369,100
(bm) Wetland restoration - fees; 
payments PR C -0- -0-
(br) Water regulation and zoning - dam 
safety and wetland mapping; 
conservation fund SEG A 929,300 929,3001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 358 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(dh) Environmental impact - power 
projects PR C -0- -0-
(di) Environmental consulting costs - 
federal power projects PR A -0- -0-
(fj) Environmental quality - 
laboratory certification PR A 758,800 758,800
(fL) Operator certification - fees PR A 185,800 185,800
(gh) Nonferrous metallic mining 
regulation and administration PR A 76,300 76,300
(gi) Ferrous metallic mining 
operations PR C -0- -0-
(hk) Approval fees to Lac du Flambeau 
band - service funds PR-S A 84,500 84,500
(hs) Approval fees from Lac du 
Flambeau band SEG C -0- -0-
(ht) Approval fees to Lac du Flambeau 
band SEG S -0- -0-
(hu) Handling and other fees SEG C 235,600 235,600
(hv) Fee amounts for statewide 
automated issuing system SEG C 2,863,100 2,863,100
(hw) Credit card handling fees SEG C 670,000 670,000
(iq) Natural resources magazine SEG C 522,400 522,400
(is) Statewide recycling 
administration SEG A 150,400 150,4001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 359 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(jq) Off-highway motorcycle 
administration SEG C 80,000 80,000
(ma) General program operations - 
state funds GPR A 11,856,400 11,856,400
(mh) General program operations - 
stationary sources PR A -0- -0-
(mi) General program operations - 
private and public sources PR C 420,900 420,900
(mk) General program operations - 
service funds PR-S C 3,451,200 3,451,200
(mm) General program operations - 
federal funds PR-F C 4,812,700 4,626,700
(mq) General program operations - 
mobile sources SEG A 435,500 435,500
(mr) General program operations - 
nonpoint source SEG A 307,700 307,700
(ms) General program operations - 
pollution prevention SEG A -0- -0-
(mt) Aids administration - 
environmental improvement 
programs; state funds SEG A -0- -0-
(mu) General program operations - 
state funds SEG A 10,093,000 10,113,700
(mv) General program operations - 
environmental fund SEG A 4,674,800 4,189,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 360 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(mw) Aids administration - snowmobile 
recreation SEG A 255,200 255,200
(mx) Aids administration - clean water 
fund program; federal funds SEG-F C 2,394,100 2,084,300
(my) General program operations - 
federal funds SEG-F C 884,300 884,300
(mz) Indirect cost reimbursements SEG-F C 1,207,000 1,207,000
(nq) Aids administration - dry cleaner 
environmental response SEG A -0- -0-
(ny) Aids administration - safe 
drinking water loan programs; 
federal funds SEG-F C 1,163,400 748,500
(pq) Great Lakes and Mississippi River 
erosion control revolving loan 
programs SEG C 7,000,000 -0-
(9)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 11,856,400 11,856,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 13,984,100 13,798,100 
 FEDERAL (4,812,700) (4,626,700)
 OTHER (5,635,700) (5,635,700)
 SERVICE (3,535,700) (3,535,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 37,793,700 29,660,100 
 FEDERAL (5,648,800) (4,924,100)
 OTHER (32,144,900) (24,736,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 63,634,200 55,314,600 
20.370 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 137,300,200 109,104,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 67,965,900 67,185,700 
 FEDERAL (33,821,300) (33,025,200)
 OTHER (23,069,100) (23,069,100)
 SERVICE (11,075,500) (11,091,400)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 619,092,100 494,916,900 
 FEDERAL (67,378,100) (65,132,800)
 OTHER (551,714,000) (429,784,100)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
342025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 361 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 824,358,200 671,207,500 
20.373 Fox River Navigational System Authority
(1) I NITIAL  COSTS
(g) Administration, operation, repair, 
and rehabilitation PR C -0- -0-
(r) Establishment and operation SEG C 131,700 131,700
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 131,700 131,700 
 OTHER (131,700) (131,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 131,700 131,700 
20.373 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 131,700 131,700 
 OTHER (131,700) (131,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 131,700 131,700 
20.375 Lower Fox River Remediation Authority
(1) I NITIAL  COSTS
(a) Initial costs GPR B -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.375 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.380 Tourism, Department of
(1) T OURISM  DEVELOPMENT  AND PROMOTION
(a) General program operations GPR A 4,444,000 4,518,3001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 362 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(b) Tourism marketing; general 
purpose revenue GPR B 42,138,200 17,731,900
(bt) Tourism marketing; additional 
general purpose revenue GPR C -0- -0-
(g) Gifts, grants and proceeds PR C 100 100
(h) Tourism promotion; sale of surplus 
property receipts PR C -0- -0-
(ig) Golf promotion PR C -0- -0-
(ir) Payments to the WPGA Junior 
Foundation PR C -0- -0-
(j) Tourism promotion - private and 
public sources PR C 99,000 99,000
(k) Sale of materials or services PR-S C -0- -0-
(ka) Sale of materials and services - 
local assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(kb) Sale of materials and services - 
individuals and organizations PR-S C -0- -0-
(km) Grants for regional tourist 
information centers PR-S A 160,000 160,000
(m) Federal aid, state operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(n) Federal aid, local assistance PR-F C -0- -0-
(o) Federal aid, individuals and 
organizations PR-F C -0- -0-
(q) Administrative services-
conservation fund SEG A 12,100 12,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 363 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(w) Tourism marketing; 
transportation fund SEG B 1,591,400 1,591,400
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 46,582,200 22,250,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 259,100 259,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (99,100) (99,100)
 SERVICE (160,000) (160,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,603,500 1,603,500 
 OTHER (1,603,500) (1,603,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 48,444,800 24,112,800 
(3) S UPPORT  OF ARTS  PROJECTS
(a) General program operations GPR A 3,282,000 3,282,000
(b) State aid for the arts GPR A 652,700 697,800
(c) Portraits of governors GPR A -0- -0-
(d) Challenge grant program GPR A -0- -0-
(e) High Point fund GPR A -0- -0-
(f) Wisconsin regranting program GPR A 116,700 116,700
(g) Gifts and grants; state operations PR C 20,000 20,000
(h) Gifts and grants; aids to 
individuals and organizations PR C -0- -0-
(j) Support of arts programs PR C -0- -0-
(km) State aid for the arts; Indian 
gaming receipts PR-S A 24,900 24,900
(m) Federal grants; state operations PR-F C 308,700 308,700
(o) Federal grants; aids to individuals 
and organizations PR-F C 524,500 524,500
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 4,051,400 4,096,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 878,100 878,100 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 364 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 FEDERAL (833,200) (833,200)
 OTHER (20,000) (20,000)
 SERVICE (24,900) (24,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,929,500 4,974,600 
20.380 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 50,633,600 26,346,700 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,137,200 1,137,200 
 FEDERAL (833,200) (833,200)
 OTHER (119,100) (119,100)
 SERVICE (184,900) (184,900)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,603,500 1,603,500 
 OTHER (1,603,500) (1,603,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 53,374,300 29,087,400 
20.385 Kickapoo Reserve Management Board
(1) K ICKAPOO  VALLEY  RESERVE
(g) Kickapoo reserve management 
board; program services PR C 196,100 207,400
(h) Kickapoo reserve management 
board; gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(k) Kickapoo valley reserve; law 
enforcement services PR-S A 68,700 68,700
(m) Kickapoo reserve management 
board; federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(q) Kickapoo reserve management 
board; general program operations SEG A 485,000 496,300
(r) Kickapoo valley reserve; aids in 
lieu of taxes SEG S 400,000 400,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 264,800 276,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (196,100) (207,400)
 SERVICE (68,700) (68,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 885,000 896,300 
 OTHER (885,000) (896,300)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
342025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 365 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,149,800 1,172,400 
20.385 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 264,800 276,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (196,100) (207,400)
 SERVICE (68,700) (68,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 885,000 896,300 
 OTHER (885,000) (896,300)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,149,800 1,172,400 
20.395 Transportation, Department of
(1) A IDS
(ar) Corrections of transportation aid 
payments SEG S -0- -0-
(as) Transportation aids to counties, 
state funds SEG A 133,268,800 137,266,900
(at) Transportation aids to 
municipalities, state funds SEG A 421,343,000 433,983,300
(av) Supplemental transportation aids 
to towns, state funds SEG A -0- -0-
(aw) Adjustments for certain 
transportation aid limitations SEG A 1,000,000 1,000,000
(ba) Transit capital assistance grants GPR C 20,000,000 -0-
(bq) Intercity bus assistance program, 
state funds SEG C -0- -0-
(bs) Transportation employment and 
mobility, state funds SEG C 999,100 1,198,900
(bv) Transit and other transportation-
related aids, local funds SEG-L C 110,000 110,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 366 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(bx) Transit and other transportation-
related aids, federal funds SEG-F C 20,538,800 20,538,800
(ck) Tribal elderly transportation 
grants PR-S A 479,200 527,100
(cq) Seniors and individuals with 
disabilities specialized 
transportation aids, state funds SEG C 1,166,400 1,176,000
(cr) Seniors and individuals with 
disabilities specialized 
transportation county aids, state 
funds SEG A 17,569,600 19,333,200
(cv) Seniors and individuals with 
disabilities specialized 
transportation aids, local funds SEG-L C 605,500 605,500
(cx) Seniors and individuals with 
disabilities specialized 
transportation aids, federal funds SEG-F C 2,996,900 2,996,900
(ex) Highway safety, local assistance, 
federal funds SEG-F C 6,869,400 6,869,400
(fq) Connecting highways aids, state 
funds SEG A 17,035,200 17,035,200
(fs) Disaster damage aids, state funds SEG S 1,000,000 1,000,000
(ft) Lift bridge aids, state funds SEG B 2,659,200 2,659,200
(fu) County forest road aids, state 
funds SEG A 330,700 341,2001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 367 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(gq) Expressway policing aids, state 
funds SEG A 8,711,900 9,610,300
(gt) Soo Locks improvements, state 
funds SEG A -0- -0-
(hb) Tier B transit operating aids, state 
funds GPR A 25,730,700 26,759,900
(hc) Tier C transit operating aids, state 
funds GPR A 6,499,100 9,898,600
(hd) Tier A-1 transit operating aids, 
state funds GPR A 67,455,300 70,153,500
(he) Tier A-2 transit operating aids, 
state funds GPR A 17,725,000 18,434,000
(hf) Tier A-3 transit operating aids, 
state funds GPR A -0- -0-
(hq) Paratransit aids SEG A 4,125,100 4,262,600
(hr) Tier B transit operating aids, state 
funds SEG A -0- -0-
(hs) Tier C transit operating aids, state 
funds SEG A -0- -0-
(ht) Tier A-1 transit operating aids, 
state funds SEG A -0- -0-
(hu) Tier A-2 transit operating aids, 
state funds SEG A -0- -0-
(hw) Tier A-3 transit operating aids, 
state funds SEG A -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 368 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ig) Professional football stadium 
maintenance and operating costs, 
state funds PR C 450,000 450,000
(ih) Child abuse and neglect 
prevention, state funds PR C 125,000 125,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 137,410,100 125,246,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,054,200 1,102,100 
 OTHER (575,000) (575,000)
 SERVICE (479,200) (527,100)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 640,329,600 659,987,400 
 FEDERAL (30,405,100) (30,405,100)
 OTHER (609,209,000) (628,866,800)
 LOCAL (715,500) (715,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 778,793,900 786,335,500 
(2) L OCAL  TRANSPORTATION  ASSISTANCE
(aq) Accelerated local bridge 
improvement assistance, state 
funds SEG C -0- -0-
(av) Accelerated local bridge 
improvement assistance, local 
funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(ax) Accelerated local bridge 
improvement assistance, federal 
funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(az) Assessment of local bridges and 
culverts, state funds SEG B -0- -0-
(bq) Rail service assistance, state 
funds SEG C 1,326,800 1,326,8001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 369 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(br) Passenger rail development, state 
funds SEG C -0- -0-
(bt) Freight rail preservation SEG C -0- -0-
(bu) Freight rail infrastructure 
improvements and intermodal 
freight facilities grants, state 
funds SEG C -0- -0-
(bv) Rail service assistance, local funds SEG-L C 500,000 500,000
(bw) Freight rail assistance loan 
repayments, local funds SEG-L C 4,000,000 4,000,000
(bx) Rail service assistance, federal 
funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(cq) Harbor assistance, state funds SEG C 3,651,000 651,000
(cr) Rail passenger service, state funds SEG C 12,443,800 17,398,800
(cs) Harbor assistance, federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(ct) Passenger railroad station 
improvement and commuter rail 
transit system grants, state funds SEG B -0- -0-
(cu) Passenger railroad station 
improvement and commuter rail 
transit system grants, local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(cv) Rail passenger service, local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(cw) Harbor assistance, local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(cx) Rail passenger service, federal 
funds SEG-F C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 370 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(dq) Aeronautics assistance, state 
funds SEG C 14,365,900 14,365,900
(ds) Aviation career education, state 
funds SEG A 240,800 240,800
(dv) Aeronautics assistance, local 
funds SEG-L C 42,000,000 42,000,000
(dx) Aeronautics assistance, federal 
funds SEG-F C 95,625,200 95,622,300
(eq) Highway and local bridge 
improvement assistance, state 
funds SEG C 28,470,600 28,470,600
(ev) Local bridge improvement 
assistance, local funds SEG-L C 19,907,600 19,907,600
(ex) Local bridge improvement 
assistance, federal funds SEG-F C 59,685,600 59,685,600
(fb) Local roads for job preservation, 
state funds GPR C -0- -0-
(fc) Local roads improvement 
program; agricultural roads, 
general fund GPR C 25,000,000 -0-
(fd) Local roads improvement 
discretionary supplement GPR C 100,000,000 -0-
(fr) Local roads improvement 
program, state funds SEG C 19,903,100 19,920,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 371 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ft) Local roads improvement 
program; discretionary grants, 
state funds SEG C 16,897,300 16,912,000
(fu) Local roads improvement 
program; agricultural roads, state 
funds SEG C -0- 25,000,000
(fv) Local transportation facility 
improvement assistance, local 
funds SEG-L C 64,404,900 65,177,800
(fx) Local transportation facility 
improvement assistance, federal 
funds SEG-F C 154,676,300 157,767,800
(fz) Local roads for job preservation, 
federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(gj) Railroad crossing protection 
installation and maintenance, 
state funds SEG C -0- -0-
(gq) Railroad crossing improvement 
and protection maintenance, state 
funds SEG A 2,112,000 2,112,000
(gr) Railroad crossing improvement 
and protection installation, state 
funds SEG C 1,595,700 1,595,700
(gs) Railroad crossing repair 
assistance, state funds SEG C 467,300 467,3001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 372 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(gv) Railroad crossing improvement, 
local funds SEG-L C 765,400 797,200
(gx) Railroad crossing improvement, 
federal funds SEG-F C 6,353,400 6,480,500
(hq) Multimodal transportation 
studies, state funds SEG C -0- -0-
(hx) Multimodal transportation 
studies, federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(iq) Transportation facilities economic 
assistance and development, state 
funds SEG C 3,402,600 3,402,600
(iv) Transportation facilities economic 
assistance and development, local 
funds SEG-L C 3,588,700 3,588,700
(iw) Transportation facility 
improvement loans, local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(ix) Transportation facilities economic 
assistance and development, 
federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(ja) Local traffic calming grants GPR C 60,000,000 -0-
(js) Transportation alternatives 
program, state funds SEG C -0- -0-
(jv) Transportation alternatives 
program, local funds SEG-L C 5,024,200 5,119,700
(jx) Transportation alternatives 
program, federal funds SEG-F C 19,096,800 19,478,7001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 373 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kv) Congestion mitigation and air 
quality improvement, local funds SEG-L C 4,365,300 4,390,100
(kx) Congestion mitigation and air 
quality improvement, federal 
funds SEG-F C 15,681,300 15,780,500
(mq) Astronautics assistance, state 
funds SEG C -0- -0-
(mv) Astronautics assistance, local 
funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(mx) Astronautics assistance, federal 
funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(ph) Transportation infrastructure 
loans, gifts and grants SEG C -0- -0-
(pq) Transportation infrastructure 
loans, state funds SEG C 4,600 4,600
(pu) Transportation infrastructure 
loans, service funds SEG-S C -0- -0-
(pv) Transportation infrastructure 
loans, local funds SEG-L C 95,600 -0-
(px) Transportation infrastructure 
loans, federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 185,000,000 -0- 
SEGREGATED REVENUE 600,651,800 632,165,100 
 FEDERAL (351,118,600) (354,815,400)
 OTHER (104,881,500) (131,868,600)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
 LOCAL (144,651,700) (145,481,100)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 785,651,800 632,165,100 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 374 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(3) S TATE  HIGHWAY  FACILITIES
(aq) Southeast Wisconsin freeway 
megaprojects, state funds SEG C 8,286,600 8,286,600
(av) Southeast Wisconsin freeway 
megaprojects, local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(ax) Southeast Wisconsin freeway 
megaprojects, federal funds SEG-F C 49,460,700 49,460,700
(bq) Major highway development, state 
funds SEG C 37,884,700 37,884,700
(br) Major highway development, 
service funds SEG-S C 123,422,800 121,112,400
(bv) Major highway development, local 
funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(bx) Major highway development, 
federal funds SEG-F C 230,994,500 239,626,800
(cq) State highway rehabilitation, state 
funds SEG C 655,655,900 824,482,800
(cr) Southeast Wisconsin freeway 
rehabilitation, state funds SEG C -0- -0-
(cs) State highway rehabilitation, 
service funds SEG-S C 65,000,000 -0-
(ct) Owner controlled insurance 
program, service funds SEG-S C -0- -0-
(cv) State highway rehabilitation, local 
funds SEG-L C 2,059,200 2,059,2001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 375 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cw) Southeast Wisconsin freeway 
rehabilitation, local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(cx) State highway rehabilitation, 
federal funds SEG-F C 542,122,500 542,122,500
(cy) Southeast Wisconsin freeway 
rehabilitation, federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(dq) Major interstate bridge 
construction, state funds SEG C -0- -0-
(dr) High-cost state highway bridge 
projects, state funds SEG C -0- -0-
(dv) Major interstate bridge 
construction, local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(dw) High-cost state highway bridge 
projects, local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(dx) Major interstate bridge 
construction, federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(dy) High-cost state highway bridge 
projects, federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(eg) Supplement from sponsorship 
agreements, state funds PR C 10,500 10,500
(eq) Highway system management and 
operations, state funds SEG C 121,659,500 126,659,500
(er) State-owned lift bridge operations 
and maintenance, state funds SEG A 2,380,100 2,380,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 376 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(es) Routine maintenance activities, 
state funds SEG C 198,915,100 205,715,100
(et) Intelligent transportation systems 
and traffic control signals, state 
funds SEG C 9,818,200 9,818,200
(eu) Intelligent transportation systems 
and traffic control signals, local 
funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(ev) Highway system management and 
operations, local funds SEG-L C 1,900,000 1,900,000
(ew) Routine maintenance activities, 
local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(ex) Highway system management and 
operations, federal funds SEG-F C 9,381,700 9,373,700
(ey) Routine maintenance activities, 
federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(ez) Intelligent transportation systems 
and traffic control signals, federal 
funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(iq) Administration and planning, 
state funds SEG A 15,899,000 15,899,000
(ir) Disadvantaged business 
mobilization assistance, state 
funds SEG C -0- -0-
(iv) Administration and planning, 
local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 377 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ix) Administration and planning, 
federal funds SEG-F C 5,870,200 5,857,200
(jg) Surveying reference station 
system PR C 590,000 590,000
(jh) Utility facilities within highway 
rights-of-way, state funds PR C 279,700 279,700
(jj) Damage claims PR C 4,087,200 4,087,200
(js) Telecommunications services, 
service funds SEG-S C -0- -0-
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 4,967,400 4,967,400 
 OTHER (4,967,400) (4,967,400)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 2,080,710,700 2,202,638,500 
 FEDERAL (837,829,600) (846,440,900)
 OTHER (1,050,499,100) (1,231,126,000)
 SERVICE (188,422,800) (121,112,400)
 LOCAL (3,959,200) (3,959,200)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 2,085,678,100 2,207,605,900 
(4) G ENERAL  TRANSPORTATION  OPERATIONS
(aq) Departmental management and 
operations, state funds SEG A 84,891,100 83,202,200
(ar) Minor construction projects, state 
funds SEG C -0- -0-
(as) Transit safety oversight, state 
funds SEG C 72,700 72,700
(at) Capital building projects, service 
funds SEG-S C 4,750,000 4,750,000
(av) Departmental management and 
operations, local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 378 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ax) Departmental management and 
operations, federal funds SEG-F C 12,595,400 12,534,800
(ay) Transit safety oversight, federal 
funds SEG-F C 305,000 305,000
(ch) Gifts and grants SEG C -0- -0-
(dq) Demand management SEG A 480,100 480,100
(eq) Data processing services, service 
funds SEG-S C 15,060,800 15,060,800
(er) Fleet operations, service funds SEG-S C 12,685,600 12,675,300
(es) Other department services, 
operations, service funds SEG-S C 5,139,000 5,139,000
(et) Equipment acquisition SEG A -0- -0-
(ew) Operating budget supplements, 
state funds SEG C -0- -0-
(fq) Electric vehicle infrastructure, 
state funds SEG C -0- -0-
(fv) Electric vehicle infrastructure, 
local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(fx) Electric vehicle infrastructure, 
federal funds SEG-F C 16,753,200 16,753,200
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
SEGREGATED REVENUE 152,732,900 150,973,100 
 FEDERAL (29,653,600) (29,593,000)
 OTHER (85,443,900) (83,755,000)
 SERVICE (37,635,400) (37,625,100)
 LOCAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 152,732,900 150,973,100 
(5) M OTOR  VEHICLE  SERVICES  AND ENFORCEMENT1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 379 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cg) Convenience fees, state funds PR C 8,650,000 8,650,000
(ch) Repaired salvage vehicle 
examinations, state funds PR C 145,900 145,900
(ci) Breath screening instruments, 
state funds PR-S C 419,400 419,400
(cj) Vehicle registration, special group 
plates, state funds PR C -0- -0-
(cL) Football plate licensing fees, state 
funds PR C -0- -0-
(cq) Vehicle registration, inspection 
and maintenance, driver licensing 
and aircraft registration, state 
funds SEG A 115,505,800 116,828,600
(cx) Vehicle registration and driver 
licensing, federal funds SEG-F C 1,237,300 1,237,300
(da) State traffic patrol equipment, 
general fund GPR A 6,417,500 -0-
(dg) Escort, security and traffic 
enforcement services, state funds PR C 1,124,600 1,124,600
(dh) Traffic academy tuition payments, 
state funds PR C 655,400 655,400
(di) Chemical testing training and 
services, state funds PR-S A 1,915,600 1,915,600
(dk) Public safety radio management, 
service funds PR-S C 1,037,500 1,037,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 380 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(dL) Public safety radio management, 
state funds PR C 174,200 174,400
(dq) Vehicle inspection, traffic 
enforcement and radio 
management, state funds SEG A 96,735,800 93,180,100
(dr) Transportation safety, state funds SEG A 2,192,800 2,192,800
(dx) Vehicle inspection and traffic 
enforcement, federal funds SEG-F C 8,655,000 8,655,000
(dy) Transportation safety, federal 
funds SEG-F C 5,277,500 5,277,500
(eg) Payments to the Wisconsin Lions 
Foundation PR C 7,000 7,000
(eh) Motorcycle safety program 
supplement, state funds PR C 38,300 38,300
(ei) Payments to Wisconsin Trout 
Unlimited PR C 21,000 21,000
(ej) Baseball plate licensing fees, state 
funds PR C 290,000 290,000
(ek) Safe-ride grant program; state 
funds PR-S C 161,400 161,400
(eL) Payments resulting from the 
issuance of certain special plates PR C 1,060,000 1,060,000
(ep) Driver education grants, state 
funds PR C 6,000,000 6,000,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 381 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(fg) Payments to the Boy Scouts of 
America National Foundation PR C 10,400 10,400
(fh) Payments to Whitetails Unlimited PR C 43,000 43,000
(fi) Payments to the Wisconsin Rocky 
Mountain Elk Foundation PR C 18,000 18,000
(fj) Payments to Wisconsin 
Organization of Nurse Executives PR C 36,500 36,500
(gg) Basketball plate payments to the 
Milwaukee Bucks Foundation PR C 20,000 20,000
(gh) Payment to Midwest Athletes 
Against Childhood Cancer PR C 18,000 18,000
(gi) Payments to the Wisconsin 
Women's Health Foundation PR C 8,500 8,500
(gj) Payments to Donate Life 
Wisconsin PR C 300,000 300,000
(hi) Payments to Wisconsin Law 
Enforcement Memorial, Inc. PR C 25,000 25,000
(hj) Payments to the National Law 
Enforcement Officers Memorial 
Fund PR C 25,000 25,000
(hq) Motor vehicle emission inspection 
and maintenance program; 
contractor costs; state funds SEG A 3,523,000 3,523,000
(hx) Motor vehicle emission inspection 
and maintenance programs, 
federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 382 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ij) Baseball plate deposits to district 
maintenance and capital 
improvements fund PR C -0- -0-
(iv) Municipal and county registration 
fee, local funds SEG-L C -0- -0-
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 6,417,500 -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE 22,204,700 22,204,900 
 OTHER (18,670,800) (18,671,000)
 SERVICE (3,533,900) (3,533,900)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 233,127,200 230,894,300 
 FEDERAL (15,169,800) (15,169,800)
 OTHER (217,957,400) (215,724,500)
 LOCAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 261,749,400 253,099,200 
(6) D EBT SERVICES
(ad) Principal repayment and interest, 
contingent funding of southeast 
Wisconsin freeway megaprojects, 
state funds GPR S 15,995,400 15,527,400
(ae) Principal repayment and interest, 
contingent funding of major 
highway and rehabilitation 
projects, state funds GPR S 12,183,900 9,736,300
(af) Principal repayment and interest, 
local roads for job preservation 
program, major highway and 
rehabilitation projects, southeast 
megaprojects, state funds GPR S 38,083,600 24,753,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 383 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(aq) Principal repayment and interest, 
transportation facilities, state 
highway rehabilitation, major 
highway projects, state funds SEG S 54,606,100 67,311,400
(ar) Principal repayment and interest, 
buildings, state funds SEG S 27,800 24,900
(au) Principal repayment and interest, 
southeast rehabilitation projects, 
southeast megaprojects, and high-
cost bridge projects, state funds SEG S 102,083,800 81,764,500
(av) Principal repayment and interest, 
contingent funding of major 
highway and rehabilitation 
projects, state funds SEG S 10,786,500 13,152,200
(6)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 66,262,900 50,017,300 
SEGREGATED REVENUE 167,504,200 162,253,000 
 OTHER (167,504,200) (162,253,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 233,767,100 212,270,300 
(7) O FFICE  OF THE COMMISSIONER  OF RAILROADS
(ag) Railroad and water carrier 
regulation and general program 
operations PR A 972,100 1,040,700
(am) Railroad and water carrier 
regulation; federal funds PR-F C -0- -0-
(7)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 972,100 1,040,700 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (972,100) (1,040,700)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 384 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 972,100 1,040,700 
(9) G ENERAL  PROVISIONS
(qd) Freeway land disposal 
reimbursement clearing account SEG C -0- -0-
(qh) Highways, bridges and local 
transportation assistance clearing 
account SEG C -0- -0-
(qj) Highways, bridges and local 
transportation assistance clearing 
account, federally funded positions SEG-F C -0- -0-
(qn) Motor vehicle financial 
responsibility SEG C -0- -0-
(th) Temporary funding of projects 
financed by revenue bonds SEG S -0- -0-
(9)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.395 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 395,090,500 175,263,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 29,198,400 29,315,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (25,185,300) (25,254,100)
 SERVICE (4,013,100) (4,061,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 3,875,056,400 4,038,911,400 
 FEDERAL (1,264,176,700) (1,276,424,200)
 OTHER (2,235,495,100) (2,453,593,900)
 SERVICE (226,058,200) (158,737,500)
 LOCAL (149,326,400) (150,155,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,299,345,300 4,243,489,800 
Environmental Resources
FUNCTIONAL AREA TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 789,189,300 315,151,900 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
342025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 385 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
PROGRAM REVENUE 98,566,300 97,914,100 
 FEDERAL (34,654,500) (33,858,400)
 OTHER (48,569,600) (48,649,700)
 SERVICE (15,342,200) (15,406,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 4,501,552,700 4,540,743,800 
 FEDERAL (1,331,554,800) (1,341,557,000)
 OTHER (2,794,613,300) (2,890,293,500)
 SERVICE (226,058,200) (158,737,500)
 LOCAL (149,326,400) (150,155,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 5,389,308,300 4,953,809,800 
Human Relations and Resources
20.410 Corrections, Department of
(1) A DULT  CORRECTIONAL  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 1,369,854,600 1,425,513,900
(aa) Institutional repair and 
maintenance GPR A 6,608,900 7,101,300
(ab) Corrections contracts and 
agreements GPR A 28,631,900 29,858,300
(b) Services for community 
corrections GPR A 198,250,500 198,437,300
(bd) Services for drunken driving 
offenders GPR A 5,374,300 5,374,300
(bm) Pharmacological treatment for 
certain child sex offenders GPR A 58,900 58,900
(bn) Reimbursing counties for 
probation, extended supervision 
and parole holds GPR A 4,885,700 4,885,7001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 386 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(c) Reimbursement claims of counties 
or municipalities containing state 
prisons GPR S 166,700 166,700
(cw) Mother-young child care program GPR A 198,000 198,000
(d) Purchased services for offenders GPR A 39,100,100 45,044,000
(df) Community reentry centers GPR A 2,000,000 2,000,000
(ds) Becky Young community 
corrections; recidivism reduction 
community services GPR A 16,695,200 17,422,600
(e) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 33,715,400 31,339,600
(ec) Prison industries principal, 
interest and rebates GPR S -0- -0-
(ed) Correctional facilities rental GPR A -0- -0-
(ef) Lease rental payments GPR S -0- -0-
(f) Energy costs; energy-related 
assessments GPR A 31,503,800 33,501,900
(fm) Electric energy derived from 
renewable resources GPR A 460,800 460,800
(gb) Drug testing PR C -0- -0-
(gc) Sex offender honesty testing PR C 340,800 340,800
(gd) Sex offender management PR A 1,509,100 1,509,100
(gf) Probation, parole, and extended 
supervision PR A 11,328,500 11,328,500
(gh) Supervision of persons on lifetime 
supervision PR A -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 387 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(gi) General operations PR A 8,415,900 8,415,900
(gk) Global positioning system 
tracking devices for certain sex 
offenders PR C 500,000 508,500
(gL) Global positioning system 
tracking devices for certain 
violators of restraining orders PR C 139,400 139,400
(gm) Sale of fuel and utility service PR A -0- -0-
(gn) Interstate compact for adult 
offender supervision PR A 375,900 375,900
(gr) Home detention services; 
supervision PR A 11,100 11,100
(gt) Telephone company commissions PR A 5,404,600 5,404,600
(h) Administration of restitution PR A 667,300 667,300
(hm) Private business employment of 
inmates and residents PR A -0- -0-
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 33,400 33,400
(jz) Operations and maintenance PR C -0- -0-
(kc) Correctional institution 
enterprises; inmate activities and 
employment PR-S C 2,819,800 2,819,800
(kd) Victim notification PR-S A 682,300 682,300
(ke) American Indian reintegration 
program PR-S A 50,000 50,000
(kf) Correctional farms PR-S A 10,682,300 10,683,8001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 388 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kh) Victim services and programs PR-S A 339,700 339,700
(kk) Institutional operations and 
charges PR-S A 17,512,700 17,512,800
(km) Prison industries PR-S A 29,329,500 29,333,400
(ko) Prison industries principal 
repayment, interest and rebates PR-S S 1,700 100
(kp) Correctional officer training PR-S A 2,694,100 2,694,100
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 2,746,800 2,746,800
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C 1,427,700 1,427,700
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C 2,725,500 2,725,500
(n) Federal program operations PR-F C 86,800 86,800
(qm) Computer recycling SEG A -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,737,504,800 1,801,363,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 99,824,900 99,837,300 
 FEDERAL (2,812,300) (2,812,300)
 OTHER (28,726,000) (28,734,500)
 SERVICE (68,286,600) (68,290,500)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,837,329,700 1,901,200,600 
(2) P AROLE  COMMISSION
(a) General program operations GPR A 724,500 724,500
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 389 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 724,500 724,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 724,500 724,500 
(3) J UVENILE  CORRECTIONAL  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 37,605,000 24,660,000
(ab) Contract payments for placement 
of juveniles GPR S -0- -0-
(ba) Mendota juvenile treatment center GPR A 1,365,500 1,365,500
(c) Reimbursement claims of counties 
or municipalities containing 
juvenile correctional facilities GPR S 95,000 95,000
(cg) Serious juvenile offenders GPR B 28,325,100 22,801,600
(dm) Interstate compact for juveniles 
assessments GPR A -0- -0-
(e) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 2,577,300 2,851,800
(f) Operating loss reimbursement 
program GPR S -0- -0-
(fm) Secured residential care centers 
for children and youth GPR S 3,334,600 4,189,100
(g) Legal services collections PR C -0- -0-
(gg) Collection remittances to local 
units of government PR C -0- -0-
(hm) Juvenile correctional services PR A 58,297,200 17,022,600
(ho) Juvenile alternate care services PR A 3,737,300 3,914,100
(hr) Juvenile community supervision PR A 6,084,800 6,090,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 390 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 7,700 7,700
(jr) Institutional operations and 
charges PR A 180,100 180,100
(jv) Secure detention services PR C 200,000 -0-
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 940,600 940,600
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C -0- -0-
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C 56,700 56,700
(n) Federal program operations PR-F C 30,000 30,000
(q) Girls school benevolent trust fund SEG C -0- -0-
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 73,302,500 55,963,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 69,534,400 28,242,300 
 FEDERAL (86,700) (86,700)
 OTHER (68,507,100) (27,215,000)
 SERVICE (940,600) (940,600)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 142,836,900 84,205,300 
(4) O FFICE  OF THE OMBUDSPERSON  FOR CORRECTIONS
(a) General program operations GPR A 901,300 1,201,700
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(k) Interagency and intra-agency 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 901,300 1,201,700 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 391 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 901,300 1,201,700 
20.410 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,812,433,100 1,859,252,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 169,359,300 128,079,600 
 FEDERAL (2,899,000) (2,899,000)
 OTHER (97,233,100) (55,949,500)
 SERVICE (69,227,200) (69,231,100)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,981,792,400 1,987,332,100 
20.425 Employment Relations Commission
(1) L ABOR  RELATIONS
(a) General program operations GPR A 982,200 2,354,400
(i) Fees, collective bargaining 
training, publications, and appeals PR A 145,600 145,600
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 982,200 2,354,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 145,600 145,600 
 OTHER (145,600) (145,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,127,800 2,500,000 
20.425 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 982,200 2,354,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 145,600 145,600 
 OTHER (145,600) (145,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,127,800 2,500,000 
20.427 Labor and Industry Review Commission
(1) R EVIEW  COMMISSION
(a) General program operations, 
review commission GPR A 165,800 165,800
(k) Unemployment administration PR-S C 2,070,400 2,070,400
(km) Equal rights; other moneys PR-S C 215,700 215,7001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
342025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 392 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(m) Federal moneys PR-F C -0- -0-
(ra) Worker's compensation operations 
fund; worker's compensation 
activities SEG A 760,600 760,600
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 165,800 165,800 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,286,100 2,286,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (2,286,100) (2,286,100)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 760,600 760,600 
 OTHER (760,600) (760,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 3,212,500 3,212,500 
20.427 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 165,800 165,800 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,286,100 2,286,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (2,286,100) (2,286,100)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 760,600 760,600 
 OTHER (760,600) (760,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 3,212,500 3,212,500 
20.432 Aging and Long-Term Care, Board on
(1) I DENTIFICATION  OF THE NEEDS  OF THE AGED  AND DISABLED
(a) General program operations GPR A 2,379,100 2,430,600
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(k) Contracts with other state 
agencies PR-S C 2,062,300 2,059,200
(kb) Insurance and other information, 
counseling and assistance PR-S A 629,600 636,400
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 2,379,100 2,430,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,691,900 2,695,600 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
342025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 393 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 SERVICE (2,691,900) (2,695,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 5,071,000 5,126,200 
20.432 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 2,379,100 2,430,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,691,900 2,695,600 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (2,691,900) (2,695,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 5,071,000 5,126,200 
20.433 Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Board
(1) P REVENTION  OF CHILD  ABUSE  AND NEGLECT
(b) Grants to organizations GPR A 6,870,000 6,870,000
(g) General program operations PR A 944,900 944,900
(h) Grants to organizations PR C 750,600 750,600
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(jb) Fees for administrative services PR C 15,000 15,000
(k) Interagency programs PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C 206,200 206,200
(ma) Federal project aids PR-F C 450,000 450,000
(q) Children's trust fund; gifts and 
grants SEG C 15,000 15,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 6,870,000 6,870,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,366,700 2,366,700 
 FEDERAL (656,200) (656,200)
 OTHER (1,710,500) (1,710,500)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 15,000 15,000 
 OTHER (15,000) (15,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 9,251,700 9,251,700 
20.433 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 6,870,000 6,870,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,366,700 2,366,700 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
332025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 394 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 FEDERAL (656,200) (656,200)
 OTHER (1,710,500) (1,710,500)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 15,000 15,000 
 OTHER (15,000) (15,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 9,251,700 9,251,700 
20.435 Health Services, Department of
(1) P UBLIC  HEALTH  SERVICES  PLANNING , REGULATION  AND DELIVERY
(a) General program operations GPR A 12,728,900 12,867,100
(am) Services, reimbursement, and 
payment related to human 
immunodeficiency virus GPR A 8,470,900 8,470,900
(b) General aids and local assistance GPR A 4,764,800 8,832,000
(bd) Hospital services grants GPR B 15,000,000 -0-
(bg) Alzheimer's disease; training and 
information grants GPR A 181,400 181,400
(bm) Purchased services for clients GPR A 93,900 93,900
(bn) Workplace wellness program 
grants GPR S -0- -0-
(br) Respite care GPR A 550,000 550,000
(c) Public health emergency 
quarantine costs GPR S -0- -0-
(cb) Well-woman program GPR A 2,428,200 2,428,200
(cc) Cancer control and prevention GPR A 333,900 333,900
(ce) Primary health for homeless 
individuals GPR C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 395 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cf) Communicable disease control and 
prevention GPR C 500,000 500,000
(cg) Guardianship grant program GPR A 200,000 200,000
(cj) Emergency dispatcher 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation 
training GPR B 75,900 75,900
(ck) Emergency medical services 
grants GPR A 25,000,000 25,000,000
(cm) Immunization GPR S -0- -0-
(cr) Minority health grants GPR A 383,600 383,600
(cx) Independent living centers GPR A 1,119,500 1,119,500
(da) Interpreter services and 
telecommunication aid for the 
hearing impaired GPR A 278,200 278,200
(de) Dental services GPR A 8,854,300 3,854,300
(dg) Clinic aids GPR B 66,800 66,800
(dh) Programs for senior citizens; elder 
abuse services; benefit specialist 
program GPR A 28,908,400 32,181,600
(dk) Low-income dental clinics GPR A 3,500,000 3,500,000
(dm) Rural health dental clinics GPR A 895,500 895,500
(dn) Food distribution grants GPR A 476,000 476,000
(ds) Statewide poison control program GPR A 482,500 482,500
(dx) Early literacy program grants; 
Reach Out and Read Wisconsin GPR B 500,000 500,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 396 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(e) Public health dispensaries and 
drugs GPR B 661,000 661,000
(ed) Radon aids GPR A 26,700 26,700
(ef) Lead-poisoning or lead-exposure 
services GPR C 103,203,100 5,341,800
(eg) Pregnancy counseling GPR A 69,100 69,100
(em) Supplemental food program for 
women, infants and children 
benefits GPR C 411,400 411,400
(eu) Reducing fetal and infant 
mortality and morbidity GPR B 222,700 222,700
(ev) Pregnancy outreach and infant 
health GPR A 1,883,200 1,883,200
(f) Women's health block grant GPR A 1,935,600 1,935,600
(fe) Referral system for community-
based services GPR A 210,000 210,000
(fh) Community health services GPR A 14,940,000 14,940,000
(fk) Grants to establish health care 
provider training programs GPR B 3,500,000 3,500,000
(fm) Tobacco use control GPR C 5,315,000 5,315,000
(fn) Health care information 
organization GPR A -0- -0-
(gm) Licensing, review and certifying 
activities; fees; supplies and 
services PR A 14,525,600 14,525,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 397 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(gp) Cancer information PR C 100,000 100,000
(gr) Supplemental food program for 
women, infants and children 
administration PR C 48,200 48,200
(hg) General program operations; 
health care information PR A 1,023,300 1,023,300
(hi) Compilations and special reports; 
health care information PR C -0- -0-
(hs) Interpreter services for hearing 
impaired PR A 49,900 49,900
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 18,168,500 18,168,500
(ja) Congenital disorders; diagnosis, 
special dietary treatment and 
counseling PR A 5,350,000 5,350,000
(jb) Congenital disorders; operations PR A 1,266,600 1,266,600
(jd) Fees for administrative services PR C 118,500 118,500
(kc) Independent living center grants PR-S A 660,000 660,000
(ke) American Indian health projects PR-S A 106,900 106,900
(kf) American Indian diabetes 
prevention and control PR-S A 22,500 22,500
(kn) Elderly nutrition; home-delivered 
and congregate meals PR-S A 500,000 500,000
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 8,873,400 8,853,300
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C 1,829,700 1,829,7001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 398 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C 109,534,900 109,531,500
(ma) Federal project aids PR-F C 88,227,000 88,227,000
(mc) Federal block grant operations PR-F C 8,956,900 8,956,900
(md) Federal block grant aids PR-F C 9,865,000 9,865,000
(n) Federal program operations PR-F C 21,828,500 21,828,500
(na) Federal program aids PR-F C 134,871,300 134,871,300
(q) Groundwater and air quality 
standards SEG A 218,800 217,100
(r) Emergency medical services; aids; 
local government fund SEG A 25,000,000 25,000,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 248,170,500 137,787,800 
PROGRAM REVENUE 425,926,700 425,903,200 
 FEDERAL (373,283,600) (373,280,200)
 OTHER (40,650,600) (40,650,600)
 SERVICE (11,992,500) (11,972,400)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 25,218,800 25,217,100 
 OTHER (25,218,800) (25,217,100)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 699,316,000 588,908,100 
(2) M ENTAL  HEALTH  AND DEVELOPMENTAL  DISABILITIES  SERVICES ; FACILITIES
(a) General program operations GPR A 183,650,100 191,645,500
(aa) Institutional repair and 
maintenance GPR A 751,000 751,000
(bj) Competency examinations and 
treatment, and conditional 
release, supervised release, and 
community supervision services GPR B 29,626,600 32,187,4001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 399 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(bm) Secure mental health units or 
facilities GPR A 197,689,900 203,747,600
(cm) Grant program; mental health 
beds GPR A 50,000 50,000
(ee) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 28,209,800 29,362,400
(ef) Lease rental payments GPR S -0- -0-
(f) Energy costs; energy-related 
assessments GPR A 6,803,400 7,155,000
(fm) Electric energy derived from 
renewable resources GPR A 241,400 241,400
(g) Alternative services of institutes 
and centers PR C 16,960,200 16,976,100
(gk) Institutional operations and 
charges PR A 297,331,100 307,567,400
(gs) Sex offender honesty testing PR C -0- -0-
(gz) Costs of housing persons on 
supervised release PR C -0- -0-
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 225,000 225,000
(km) Indian mental health placement PR-S A 250,000 250,000
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 29,907,200 31,265,400
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C -0- -0-
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 400 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 447,022,200 465,140,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 344,673,500 356,283,900 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (314,516,300) (324,768,500)
 SERVICE (30,157,200) (31,515,400)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 791,695,700 821,424,200 
(4) M EDICAID  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 47,467,900 48,032,700
(b) Medical Assistance program 
benefits GPR B 3,686,074,500 4,038,122,900
(bd) Long-term care programs GPR A 11,200,000 11,200,000
(bf) Graduate medical training 
support grants GPR C 3,679,900 3,679,900
(bm) Medical Assistance, food stamps, 
and Badger Care administration; 
contract costs, insurer reports, 
and resource centers GPR B 144,330,900 140,174,700
(bn) Income maintenance GPR B 16,632,000 16,964,100
(bp) Food stamp employment and 
training program administration GPR C 9,853,300 19,258,300
(br) Cemetery, funeral, and burial 
expenses program GPR B 7,413,200 7,622,000
(bt) Healthy food incentive program GPR C 425,000 425,000
(bu) Payment processing program for 
farmers GPR B 367,500 367,500
(bv) Prescription drug assistance for 
elderly; aids GPR B 19,047,000 21,803,3001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 401 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(e) Disease aids GPR B 2,686,000 2,744,200
(ed) State supplement to federal 
supplemental security income 
program GPR S 161,112,300 175,331,700
(g) Family care benefit; cost sharing PR C -0- -0-
(gm) Medical assistance; provider 
refunds and collections PR C 1,244,171,600 1,324,025,800
(gr) Income maintenance; county 
payments PR C -0- -0-
(h) County contributions PR C 52,025,700 52,025,700
(hp) Disabled children's long-term 
support waivers PR C 1,567,300 1,567,300
(i) Gifts, grants, and payments; 
health care financing PR C 3,385,900 3,385,900
(iL) Medical assistance provider 
assessments; health services 
regulation PR C 186,800 186,800
(im) Medical assistance; correct 
payment recovery; collections; 
community services; other 
recoveries PR C 68,918,100 68,918,100
(in) Community options program; 
family care; recovery of costs 
administration PR A 290,100 290,100
(j) Prescription drug assistance for 
elderly; manufacturer rebates PR C 72,267,800 75,334,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 402 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(jb) Prescription drug assistance for 
elderly; enrollment fees PR C 3,216,300 3,216,300
(jc) Fees for administrative services PR C 30,000 30,000
(jd) Electronic benefit transfer card 
replacement costs PR C 455,000 455,000
(je) Disease aids; drug manufacturer 
rebates PR C 490,800 503,900
(jt) Care management organization; 
insolvency assistance PR C -0- -0-
(jw) BadgerCare Plus and hospital 
assessment PR C 2,030,200 2,030,200
(jz) Medical Assistance and Badger 
Care cost sharing, and employer 
penalty assessments PR C 9,000,000 9,000,000
(kb) Relief block grants to tribal 
governing bodies PR-S A 712,800 712,800
(kt) Medical assistance outreach and 
reimbursements for tribes PR-S B 961,700 961,700
(kv) Care management organization; 
oversight PR-S C -0- -0-
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 9,587,500 9,460,300
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C 44,503,400 44,357,400
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C 1,000,000 1,000,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 403 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(L) Fraud and error reduction PR C 817,300 817,300
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C 6,226,700 6,226,700
(ma) Federal project aids PR-F C 2,700,000 2,700,000
(md) Federal block grant aids PR-F C -0- -0-
(n) Federal program operations PR-F C 90,896,300 90,906,300
(na) Federal program aids PR-F C 12,485,000 12,485,000
(nn) Federal aid; income maintenance PR-F C 63,372,400 63,884,700
(np) Federal aid; food stamp 
employment and training program PR-F C 25,512,500 26,069,300
(o) Federal aid; medical assistance PR-F C 10,996,475,500 11,721,913,200
(p) Federal aid; Badger Care health 
care program PR-F C -0- -0-
(pa) Federal aid; Medical Assistance 
and food stamp contracts 
administration PR-F C 306,800,400 323,977,400
(pg) Federal aid; prescription drug 
assistance for elderly PR-F C 23,263,300 23,193,900
(w) Medical Assistance trust fund SEG B 822,406,900 773,085,600
(wa) Ambulance service provider trust 
fund; ambulance payments SEG C -0- -0-
(wm) Medical assistance trust fund; 
nursing homes SEG S -0- -0-
(wp) Medical Assistance trust fund; 
county reimbursement SEG S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 404 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(x) Medical Assistance trust fund; 
Badger Care health care program SEG C -0- -0-
(xc) Hospital assessment fund; 
hospital payments SEG C 703,392,100 701,890,000
(xe) Critical access hospital 
assessment fund; hospital 
payments SEG C 16,137,600 16,118,300
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 4,110,289,500 4,485,726,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 13,043,350,400 13,869,635,100 
 FEDERAL (11,527,732,100) (12,271,356,500)
 OTHER (1,458,852,900) (1,541,786,400)
 SERVICE (56,765,400) (56,492,200)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,541,936,600 1,491,093,900 
 OTHER (1,541,936,600) (1,491,093,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 18,695,576,500 19,846,455,300 
(5) C ARE AND TREATMENT  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 5,416,400 5,392,000
(bc) Grants for community programs GPR A 13,303,300 15,262,900
(bd) Nonnarcotic drug treatment 
grants GPR B 750,000 750,000
(be) Mental health treatment services GPR A 1,551,500 1,551,500
(bf) Brighter futures initiative GPR A 865,000 865,000
(bg) Treatment program grants GPR A 2,252,500 2,252,500
(bw) Mental health consultation 
program GPR B 4,000,000 4,000,000
(bx) Addiction medicine consultation 
program GPR B 500,000 500,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 405 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cd) Crisis intervention training 
grants GPR B 500,000 500,000
(cf) Crisis program enhancement 
grants GPR B 1,125,000 1,125,000
(ch) Suicide and crisis lifeline grants GPR A 4,217,900 7,979,800
(ck) Crisis urgent care and observation 
facilities GPR C 20,161,400 -0-
(co) Initiatives for coordinated services GPR A 2,599,100 2,599,100
(da) Reimbursements to local units of 
government GPR S 1,000,000 1,000,000
(dg) Grants for crisis stabilization 
facilities GPR A 3,760,000 3,839,000
(fr) Mental health for homeless 
individuals GPR A 41,900 41,900
(gb) Alcohol and drug abuse initiatives PR C 506,700 506,700
(gg) Collection remittances to local 
units of government PR C 4,400 4,400
(hx) Services related to drivers, 
receipts PR A -0- -0-
(hy) Services for drivers, local 
assistance PR-S A 1,000,000 1,000,000
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 196,500 196,500
(jb) Fees for administrative services PR C 23,900 23,900
(kc) Severely emotionally disturbed 
children PR-S C 724,500 724,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 406 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kg) Compulsive gambling awareness 
campaigns PR-S A 396,000 396,000
(kL) Indian aids PR-S A 242,000 242,000
(km) Indian drug abuse prevention and 
education PR-S A 445,500 445,500
(kp) Center PR-S C 1,245,500 1,245,500
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 6,219,300 6,219,300
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C -0- -0-
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C 1,582,200 1,582,200
(ma) Federal project aids PR-F C 16,693,000 16,693,000
(mb) Federal project local assistance PR-F C -0- -0-
(mc) Federal block grant operations PR-F C 8,293,800 8,269,500
(md) Federal block grant aids PR-F C 11,679,300 11,679,300
(me) Federal block grant local 
assistance PR-F C 60,274,000 60,274,000
(n) Federal program operations PR-F C 1,331,200 1,331,200
(na) Federal program aids PR-F C 847,000 847,000
(nL) Federal program local assistance PR-F C -0- -0-
(o) Federal aid; community aids PR-F C 12,610,700 12,610,700
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 62,044,000 47,658,700 
PROGRAM REVENUE 124,315,500 124,291,200 
 FEDERAL (113,311,200) (113,286,900)
 OTHER (731,500) (731,500)
 SERVICE (10,272,800) (10,272,800)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 407 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 186,359,500 171,949,900 
(6) Q UALITY  ASSURANCE  SERVICES  PLANNING , REGULATION  AND DELIVERY
(a) General program operations GPR A 6,892,000 6,841,500
(dm) Nursing home monitoring and 
receivership supplement GPR S -0- -0-
(g) Nursing facility resident 
protection PR C 2,000,000 2,000,000
(ga) Community-based residential 
facility monitoring and 
receivership operations PR C -0- -0-
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(jb) Fees for administrative services PR C 248,700 248,700
(jm) Licensing and support services PR A 10,086,200 10,328,700
(k) Nursing home monitoring and 
receivership operations PR C -0- -0-
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C -0- -0-
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C -0- -0-
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(mc) Federal block grant operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(n) Federal program operations PR-F C 21,607,300 21,711,700
(na) Federal program aids PR-F C -0- -0-
(nL) Federal program local assistance PR-F C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 408 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(6)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 6,892,000 6,841,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 33,942,200 34,289,100 
 FEDERAL (21,607,300) (21,711,700)
 OTHER (12,334,900) (12,577,400)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 40,834,200 41,130,600 
(7) D ISABILITY  AND ELDER  SERVICES
(b) Community aids and medical 
assistance payments GPR A 219,611,900 224,691,600
(bc) Grants for community programs GPR A 131,200 131,200
(bt) Early intervention services for 
infants and toddlers with 
disabilities GPR C 6,914,000 6,914,000
(d) Complex patient pilot program GPR B 15,000,000 -0-
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C -0- -0-
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C 1,257,800 1,257,800
(ma) Federal project aids PR-F C 10,500,000 10,500,000
(mb) Federal project local assistance PR-F C -0- -0-
(md) Federal block grant aids PR-F C -0- -0-
(me) Federal block grant local 
assistance PR-F C -0- -0-
(na) Federal program aids PR-F C 1,000,000 1,000,000
(nL) Federal program local assistance PR-F C 9,500,000 9,500,000
(o) Federal aid; community aids PR-F C 42,586,700 42,586,700
(7)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 241,657,100 231,736,800 
PROGRAM REVENUE 64,844,500 64,844,500 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 409 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 FEDERAL (63,586,700) (63,586,700)
 SERVICE (1,257,800) (1,257,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 306,501,600 296,581,300 
(8) G ENERAL  ADMINISTRATION
(a) General program operations GPR A 21,521,300 21,399,600
(b) Inspector general; general 
operations GPR A 5,730,100 5,715,000
(c) Inspector general; local assistance GPR A 1,500,000 1,500,000
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 572,700 572,700
(k) Administrative and support 
services PR-S A 50,959,300 50,959,300
(kw) Inspector general; interagency and 
intra-agency programs PR-S C 1,185,200 1,185,200
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 571,400 571,400
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C 2,000,000 2,000,000
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(ma) Federal project aids PR-F C -0- -0-
(mb) Income augmentation services 
receipts PR-F C 376,100 376,100
(mc) Federal block grant operations PR-F C 1,757,800 1,757,800
(mm) Reimbursements from federal 
government PR-F C -0- -0-
(n) Federal program operations PR-F C 4,920,200 4,266,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 410 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(o) Inspector general; federal program 
local assistance PR-F C 2,447,000 2,447,000
(p) Inspector general; federal program 
operations PR-F C 10,244,100 10,244,100
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C 8,794,100 8,203,700
(8)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 28,751,400 28,614,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 83,827,900 82,583,400 
 FEDERAL (28,539,300) (27,294,800)
 OTHER (572,700) (572,700)
 SERVICE (54,715,900) (54,715,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 112,579,300 111,198,000 
20.435 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 5,144,826,700 5,403,506,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 14,120,880,700 14,957,830,400 
 FEDERAL (12,128,060,200) (12,870,516,800)
 OTHER (1,827,658,900) (1,921,087,100)
 SERVICE (165,161,600) (166,226,500)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,567,155,400 1,516,311,000 
 OTHER (1,567,155,400) (1,516,311,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 20,832,862,800 21,877,647,400 
20.437 Children and Families, Department of
(1) C HILDREN  AND FAMILY  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 13,645,900 16,704,600
(ab) Child abuse and neglect 
prevention grants GPR A 3,185,700 5,881,700
(ac) Child abuse and neglect 
prevention technical assistance GPR A -0- -0-
(b) Children and family aids 
payments GPR A 49,086,800 54,211,900
(bc) Youth support programs GPR A 9,585,300 9,613,9001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 411 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(bd) Tribal family services grants GPR A 98,900 173,500
(bf) Family and juvenile treatment 
court grants GPR A 250,000 250,000
(bg) Grants to support foster parents 
and children GPR A 400,000 400,000
(bn) Tribal placements GPR A 3,729,900 3,729,900
(cd) Domestic abuse grants GPR A 12,434,600 12,434,600
(cf) Foster parent insurance and 
liability GPR A 59,400 59,400
(cj) Community youth and family aids GPR A 49,829,900 53,351,400
(ck) Community youth and family aids; 
bonus for county facilities GPR A 750,000 750,000
(cL) Seventeen-year-old juvenile justice 
aids GPR S 5,000,000 5,000,000
(cm) Youth justice system improvement 
program GPR A 3,015,300 3,015,300
(cw) Milwaukee child welfare services; 
general program operations GPR A 22,650,200 22,742,700
(cx) Child welfare services; aids GPR A 85,315,200 84,773,600
(dd) State out-of-home care, adoption 
services, subsidized 
guardianships, and kinship care GPR A 57,895,800 58,374,100
(dg) State adoption information 
exchange and state adoption 
center GPR A 169,600 169,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 412 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(e) Services for sex-trafficking victims GPR B 3,000,000 3,000,000
(eg) Brighter futures initiative GPR A 864,900 864,900
(em) National reading program grants GPR A 500,000 500,000
(er) Grants for services for homeless 
and runaway youth GPR A 400,000 400,000
(f) Second-chance homes GPR A -0- -0-
(gg) Collection remittances to local 
units of government PR C -0- -0-
(gx) Milwaukee child welfare services; 
collections PR C 2,679,000 2,679,000
(hh) Domestic abuse surcharge grants PR C 600,000 600,000
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 5,000 5,000
(j) Statewide automated child welfare 
information system receipts PR C 581,300 581,300
(jb) Fees for administrative services PR C 78,000 78,000
(jj) Searches for birth parents and 
adoption record information; 
foreign adoptions PR A 120,700 120,700
(jm) Licensing activities PR C 101,800 101,800
(js) Tribal family services grants PR-S A 1,867,500 1,867,500
(kb) Interagency aids; brighter futures 
initiative PR-S C 865,000 865,000
(kj) Interagency and intra-agency 
aids; Menominee child welfare 
services PR-S A 507,000 507,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 413 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kL) Interagency and intra-agency 
aids; tribal subsidized 
guardianships PR-S A 282,600 282,600
(km) Interagency and intra-agency 
aids; children and family aids; 
local assistance PR-S C 7,256,100 7,256,100
(kp) Youth aids funding for the youth 
justice system improvement 
program PR-S C -0- -0-
(kw) Interagency and intra-agency 
aids; Milwaukee child welfare 
services PR-S A 20,101,300 20,101,300
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 3,727,100 3,727,100
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C 3,290,100 3,290,100
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency 
aids; tribal placements PR-S A 717,500 717,500
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C 1,242,500 1,242,500
(ma) Federal project aids PR-F C 4,024,800 4,024,800
(mb) Federal project local assistance PR-F C -0- -0-
(mc) Federal block grant operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(md) Federal block grant aids PR-F C -0- -0-
(mw) Federal aid; Milwaukee child 
welfare services general program 
operations PR-F C 5,537,700 5,550,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 414 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(mx) Federal aid; Milwaukee child 
welfare services aids PR-F C 19,293,900 19,098,600
(n) Federal program operations PR-F C 13,539,900 13,622,600
(na) Federal program aids PR-F C 12,968,700 12,968,700
(nL) Federal program local assistance PR-F C 18,645,900 18,749,900
(o) Federal aid; children, youth, and 
family aids PR-F C 50,802,400 51,577,000
(pd) Federal aid; state out-of-home 
care, adoption services, and 
subsidized guardianships PR-F C 56,457,200 56,673,900
(pm) Federal aid; adoption incentive 
payments PR-F C 400,000 400,000
(q) Community youth and family aids; 
local government fund SEG A 46,652,900 46,652,900
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 321,867,400 336,401,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 225,693,000 226,688,500 
 FEDERAL (182,913,000) (183,908,500)
 OTHER (4,165,800) (4,165,800)
 SERVICE (38,614,200) (38,614,200)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 46,652,900 46,652,900 
 OTHER (46,652,900) (46,652,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 594,213,300 609,742,500 
(2) E CONOMIC  SUPPORT
(a) General program operations GPR A 12,355,200 15,888,900
(bc) Child support local assistance GPR C 16,410,000 16,410,000
(bp) Child care access program GPR A 10,000,000 -0-
(c) Child care quality improvement 
program GPR A 220,000,000 220,000,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 415 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cm) Wisconsin works child care GPR A 28,849,400 28,849,400
(d) Child care partnership grant 
program GPR A -0- 5,000,000
(dz) Temporary Assistance for Needy 
Families programs; maintenance 
of effort GPR A 131,077,000 131,077,000
(e) Incentive payments for identifying 
children with health insurance GPR A 300,000 300,000
(eh) Head start supplement GPR A 6,264,100 6,264,100
(ej) Child care water safety grant 
program GPR C 7,100,000 -0-
(em) Drug testing and treatment costs GPR A 250,000 250,000
(f) Emergency Shelter of the Fox 
Valley GPR A 50,000 50,000
(fg) Grants for out-of-school time 
programs GPR A -0- 11,500,000
(fn) Expanded Transform Milwaukee 
Jobs program and Transitional 
Jobs program GPR A 1,000,000 1,000,000
(fr) Skills enhancement grants GPR A 500,000 500,000
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 2,500 2,500
(ja) Child support state operations - 
fees, reimbursements, and 
collections PR C 19,904,800 20,069,200
(jb) Fees for administrative services PR C 725,000 725,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 416 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(jL) Job access loan repayments PR C 610,200 610,200
(jm) Child care worker background 
check PR C 2,000,000 2,000,000
(jn) Child care licensing and 
certification activities PR C 1,500,000 1,500,000
(k) Child support transfers PR-S C 7,141,000 7,141,000
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 4,226,500 4,286,800
(L) Public assistance overpayment 
recovery, fraud investigation, and 
error reduction PR C 160,600 160,600
(ma) Federal project activities and 
administration PR-F C 1,257,000 1,237,100
(mc) Federal block grant operations PR-F A 75,598,700 76,787,500
(md) Federal block grant aids PR-F A 631,208,000 663,386,100
(me) Child care and temporary 
assistance overpayment recovery PR-F C 4,287,600 4,287,600
(mg) Community services block grant; 
federal funds PR-F C 9,314,700 9,314,700
(mm) Reimbursements from federal 
government PR-F C -0- -0-
(n) Child support state operations; 
federal funds PR-F C 32,068,500 38,673,100
(nL) Child support local assistance; 
federal funds PR-F C 85,693,300 85,693,3001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 417 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(om) Refugee assistance; federal funds PR-F C 8,435,400 8,435,400
(q) Centralized support receipt and 
disbursement; interest SEG S 35,000 35,000
(qm) Child support state operations and 
reimbursement for claims and 
expenses; unclaimed payments SEG S 100,000 100,000
(s) Economic support - public benefits SEG A 9,139,700 9,139,700
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 434,155,700 437,089,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 884,133,800 924,310,100 
 FEDERAL (847,863,200) (887,814,800)
 OTHER (24,903,100) (25,067,500)
 SERVICE (11,367,500) (11,427,800)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 9,274,700 9,274,700 
 OTHER (9,274,700) (9,274,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,327,564,200 1,370,674,200 
(3) G ENERAL  ADMINISTRATION
(a) General program operations GPR A 2,301,200 2,301,600
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 4,400 4,400
(jb) Fees for administrative services PR C -0- -0-
(k) Administrative and support 
services PR-S A 30,950,000 29,954,700
(kp) Interagency and intra-agency 
aids; income augmentation 
services receipts PR-S C -0- -0-
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C 19,986,400 20,386,400
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 418 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(mc) Federal block grant operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(md) Federal block grant aids PR-F C -0- -0-
(mf) Federal economic stimulus funds PR-F C -0- -0-
(mm) Reimbursements from federal 
government PR-F C -0- -0-
(n) Federal project activities PR-F C -0- -0-
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C -0- -0-
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 2,301,200 2,301,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 50,940,800 50,345,500 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (4,400) (4,400)
 SERVICE (50,936,400) (50,341,100)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 53,242,000 52,647,100 
20.437 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 758,324,300 775,792,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,160,767,600 1,201,344,100 
 FEDERAL (1,030,776,200) (1,071,723,300)
 OTHER (29,073,300) (29,237,700)
 SERVICE (100,918,100) (100,383,100)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 55,927,600 55,927,600 
 OTHER (55,927,600) (55,927,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,975,019,500 2,033,063,800 
20.438 People with Developmental Disabilities, Board for
(1) D EVELOPMENTAL  DISABILITIES
(a) General program operations GPR A 114,200 114,200
(h) Program services PR C -0- -0-
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(mc) Federal project operations PR-F C 1,227,700 1,138,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 419 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(md) Federal project aids PR-F C 543,600 543,600
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 114,200 114,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,771,300 1,682,200 
 FEDERAL (1,771,300) (1,682,200)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,885,500 1,796,400 
20.438 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 114,200 114,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,771,300 1,682,200 
 FEDERAL (1,771,300) (1,682,200)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,885,500 1,796,400 
20.440 Health and Educational Facilities Authority
(1) C ONSTRUCTION  OF HEALTH  AND EDUCATIONAL  FACILITIES
(a) General program operations GPR C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(2) R URAL  HOSPITAL  LOAN  GUARANTEE
(a) Rural assistance loan fund GPR C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.440 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.445 Workforce Development, Department of
(1) W ORKFORCE  DEVELOPMENT
(a) General program operations GPR A 14,003,200 14,472,400
(aa) Special death benefit GPR S 525,000 525,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 420 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(am) Unemployment insurance; general 
administration GPR C -0- -0-
(b) Workforce training; programs, 
grants, services, and contracts GPR C 8,750,000 6,750,000
(bg) Worker training and employment 
program GPR C -0- -0-
(bm) Workforce training; 
administration GPR B 3,775,600 3,775,600
(bt) Workforce development; grants for 
teacher training and recruitment GPR B 500,000 500,000
(bw) Workforce innovation grants GPR C 140,000,000 -0-
(bz) Career and technical education 
incentive grants GPR A 8,000,000 8,000,000
(c) Career and technical education 
completion awards GPR S 51,500 51,500
(cg) Technical education equipment 
grants GPR A 1,200,000 1,200,000
(cm) Wisconsin worker advancement 
program GPR C 15,000,000 5,000,000
(cr) State supplement to employment 
opportunity demonstration 
projects GPR A 200,600 200,600
(d) Reimbursement for tuition 
payments GPR A 802,000 926,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 421 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(dg) Teacher development program 
grants GPR A -0- -0-
(dr) Apprenticeship programs GPR A 500,000 500,000
(e) Local youth apprenticeship grants GPR S 13,689,200 17,600,000
(em) Youth-to-registered 
apprenticeship grant program GPR C 250,000 250,000
(er) On-the-job learning grant 
program GPR C 2,250,000 1,500,000
(f) Death and disability benefit 
payments; public insurrections GPR S -0- -0-
(fg) Employment transit assistance 
grants GPR A 464,800 464,800
(fm) Youth summer jobs programs GPR A 422,400 422,400
(g) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(ga) Auxiliary services PR C 394,700 394,700
(gb) Local agreements PR C 267,100 267,100
(gc) Unemployment administration PR C -0- -0-
(gd) Unemployment interest and 
penalty payments PR C 1,803,100 1,803,100
(gg) Unemployment information 
technology systems; interest and 
penalties PR C -0- -0-
(gh) Unemployment information 
technology systems; assessments PR C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 422 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(gk) Permit system for employment of 
minors; fees PR A 164,500 164,500
(gm) Unemployment insurance 
handbook PR C -0- -0-
(gr) Agricultural education and 
workforce development council, 
gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(ka) Interagency and intra-agency 
agreements PR-S C 36,378,600 36,378,600
(kc) Administrative services PR-S A 41,082,700 41,082,700
(km) Nursing workforce survey and 
grants PR-S C 155,600 155,600
(m) Workforce investment and 
assistance; federal moneys PR-F C 65,271,100 62,195,200
(n) Employment assistance and 
unemployment insurance 
administration; federal moneys PR-F C 71,465,900 68,378,400
(na) Employment security buildings 
and equipment PR-F C -0- -0-
(nb) Unemployment administration; 
information technology systems PR-F C -0- -0-
(nd) Unemployment administration; 
apprenticeship and other 
employment services PR-F A 523,000 523,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 423 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ne) Unemployment insurance 
administration and bank service 
costs PR-F C -0- -0-
(o) Equal rights; federal moneys PR-F C 1,274,700 1,250,000
(p) Worker's compensation; federal 
moneys PR-F C -0- -0-
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C 25,300 25,300
(ra) Worker's compensation operations 
fund; administration SEG S 17,186,000 17,520,600
(rb) Worker's compensation operations 
fund; contracts SEG C 93,900 93,900
(rr) Worker's compensation operations 
fund; special assessment insurer 
reimbursements SEG A 5,000,000 5,000,000
(s) Self-insured employers liability 
fund SEG C -0- -0-
(sm) Uninsured employers fund; 
payments SEG S 5,500,000 5,500,000
(t) Work injury supplemental benefit 
fund SEG C 5,360,000 5,360,000
(u) Unemployment interest payments 
and transfers SEG C -0- -0-
(v) Unemployment program integrity SEG C 1,027,400 1,027,400
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 210,384,300 62,138,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 218,806,300 212,618,200 
 FEDERAL (138,560,000) (132,371,900)
 OTHER (2,629,400) (2,629,400)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 424 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 SERVICE (77,616,900) (77,616,900)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 34,167,300 34,501,900 
 OTHER (34,167,300) (34,501,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 463,357,900 309,258,400 
(5) V OCATIONAL  REHABILITATION  SERVICES
(a) General program operations; 
purchased services for clients GPR C 29,060,400 33,189,900
(gg) Contractual services PR C -0- -0-
(gp) Contractual aids PR C -0- -0-
(h) Enterprises and services for blind 
and visually impaired PR C 149,100 149,100
(he) Supervised business enterprise PR C 125,000 125,000
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 1,000 1,000
(kg) Vocational rehabilitation services 
for tribes PR-S A 314,900 314,900
(kx) Interagency and intra-agency 
programs PR-S C -0- -0-
(ky) Interagency and intra-agency aids PR-S C -0- -0-
(kz) Interagency and intra-agency local 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal project operations PR-F C 50,000 50,000
(ma) Federal project aids PR-F C 5,730,200 1,661,000
(n) Federal program aids and 
operations PR-F C 92,431,700 117,982,100
(nL) Federal program local assistance PR-F C -0- -0-
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 29,060,400 33,189,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 98,801,900 120,283,100 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 425 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 FEDERAL (98,211,900) (119,693,100)
 OTHER (275,100) (275,100)
 SERVICE (314,900) (314,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 127,862,300 153,473,000 
20.445 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 239,444,700 95,328,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 317,608,200 332,901,300 
 FEDERAL (236,771,900) (252,065,000)
 OTHER (2,904,500) (2,904,500)
 SERVICE (77,931,800) (77,931,800)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 34,167,300 34,501,900 
 OTHER (34,167,300) (34,501,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 591,220,200 462,731,400 
20.455 Justice, Department of
(1) L EGAL  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 20,786,000 20,342,600
(d) Legal expenses GPR B 734,400 734,400
(gh) Investigation and prosecution PR C 200,000 200,000
(gs) Delinquent obligation collection PR A 25,000 25,000
(hm) Restitution PR C 1,000,000 1,000,000
(hn) Payments to relators PR C -0- -0-
(k) Environment litigation project PR-S C 801,900 818,600
(km) Interagency and intra-agency 
assistance PR-S C 2,969,600 3,019,700
(m) Federal aid PR-F C 1,668,200 1,743,900
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 21,520,400 21,077,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 6,664,700 6,807,200 
 FEDERAL (1,668,200) (1,743,900)
 OTHER (1,225,000) (1,225,000)
 SERVICE (3,771,500) (3,838,300)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 28,185,100 27,884,200 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 426 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(2) L AW ENFORCEMENT  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 38,393,100 37,256,400
(am) Officer training reimbursement GPR S 150,000 150,000
(b) Investigations and operations GPR A -0- -0-
(bm) Law enforcement officer 
supplement grants - state funds GPR A 1,000,000 1,000,000
(c) Crime laboratory equipment GPR B -0- -0-
(cm) Law enforcement agency drug 
trafficking response grants GPR B 1,000,000 1,000,000
(cp) Community-oriented policing-
house grant program GPR B -0- -0-
(cv) Shot Spotter Program GPR A 175,000 175,000
(d) Grants for body cameras GPR C -0- -0-
(dg) Weed and seed and law 
enforcement technology GPR A -0- -0-
(eg) Drug courts GPR A 500,000 250,000
(em) Alternatives to prosecution and 
incarceration for persons who use 
alcohol or other drugs; 
presentencing assessments GPR A 10,150,000 5,075,000
(f) School safety GPR C -0- -0-
(fw) Elder abuse hotline and grant 
program GPR A 135,000 135,000
(g) Gaming law enforcement; racing 
revenues PR A -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 427 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(gb) Gifts and grants PR C 164,500 100,000
(gc) Gaming law enforcement; Indian 
gaming PR A 221,200 221,200
(gm) Criminal history searches; 
fingerprint identification PR C 4,983,500 5,170,000
(gp) Crime information alerts PR C -0- -0-
(gr) Firearm purchaser record check; 
checks for licenses or certifications 
to carry concealed weapons PR C 4,788,000 4,807,500
(gu) Sobriety programs PR A -0- -0-
(h) Terminal charges PR A 2,282,300 2,282,300
(hd) Internet crimes against children PR C 875,000 875,000
(i) Penalty surcharge, receipts PR A -0- -0-
(im) Training to school staff PR C -0- -0-
(ja) Law enforcement training fund, 
state operations PR-S A 3,421,100 3,522,000
(jb) Crime laboratory equipment and 
supplies PR-S A 900,000 900,000
(jc) Law enforcement overtime grants PR A 190,800 -0-
(jd) Alternatives to incarceration grant 
program PR A -0- -0-
(k) Interagency and intra-agency 
assistance PR-S C 2,106,900 2,106,900
(kb) Law enforcement officer 
supplement grants PR-S A 224,900 224,9001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 428 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kc) Transaction information 
management of enforcement 
system PR-S A 1,734,500 1,734,500
(kd) Drug law enforcement, crime 
laboratories, and genetic evidence 
activities PR-S A 11,103,100 11,859,300
(ke) Drug enforcement intelligence 
operations PR-S A 2,392,800 2,392,800
(kg) Interagency and intra-agency 
assistance; fingerprint 
identification PR-S A -0- -0-
(kj) Youth diversion program PR-S A 672,400 672,400
(km) Lottery background investigations PR-S A -0- -0-
(kn) Alternatives to prosecution and 
incarceration for persons who use 
alcohol or other drugs; justice 
information fee PR-S A 268,800 157,900
(ko) Wisconsin justice information 
sharing program PR-S A 941,700 966,700
(kp) Drug crimes enforcement; local 
grants PR-S A 717,900 717,900
(kq) County law enforcement services PR-S A 490,000 490,000
(kt) County-tribal programs, local 
assistance PR-S A 631,200 631,200
(ku) County-tribal programs, state 
operations PR-S A 134,500 134,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 429 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kv) Grants for substance abuse 
treatment programs for criminal 
offenders PR C -0- -0-
(kw) Tribal law enforcement assistance PR-S A 2,000,000 2,000,000
(ky) Law enforcement programs and 
youth diversion - administration PR-S A 160,400 135,200
(Lm) Crime laboratories; 
deoxyribonucleic acid analysis PR-S C 6,194,300 6,498,800
(Lp) Crime laboratories; 
deoxyribonucleic acid analysis 
surcharges PR C -0- -0-
(m) Federal aid, state operations PR-F C 4,729,200 4,645,600
(n) Federal aid, local assistance PR-F C 5,755,000 5,755,000
(q) Law enforcement training fund; 
local government fund SEG A 8,800,000 8,800,000
(r) Gaming law enforcement; lottery 
revenues SEG A 512,200 512,500
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 51,503,100 45,041,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 58,084,000 59,001,600 
 FEDERAL (10,484,200) (10,400,600)
 OTHER (13,505,300) (13,456,000)
 SERVICE (34,094,500) (35,145,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 9,312,200 9,312,500 
 OTHER (9,312,200) (9,312,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 118,899,300 113,355,500 
(3) A DMINISTRATIVE  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 9,085,500 8,856,400
(g) Gifts, grants and proceeds PR C 525,000 525,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 430 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(m) Federal aid, state operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C 923,300 923,300
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 9,085,500 8,856,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,448,300 1,448,300 
 FEDERAL (923,300) (923,300)
 OTHER (525,000) (525,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 10,533,800 10,304,700 
(5) V ICTIMS  AND WITNESSES
(a) General program operations GPR A 2,547,300 2,354,400
(b) Awards for victims of crimes GPR A 2,388,100 2,388,100
(br) Global positioning system 
tracking GPR A -0- -0-
(d) Reimbursement for forensic 
examinations GPR S 1,120,000 1,120,000
(e) Sexual assault victim services GPR A 2,249,000 2,249,000
(es) Court appointed special advocates GPR A 250,000 250,000
(f) Reimbursement to counties for 
victim-witness services GPR A 4,131,900 4,619,200
(g) Crime victim and witness 
assistance surcharge, general 
services PR A 5,158,000 5,158,000
(gj) General operations; child 
pornography surcharge PR C 287,300 287,300
(gL) Grants for crime victim services PR C -0- -0-
(h) Crime victim compensation 
services PR-S A 101,000 102,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 431 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(hh) Crime victim restitution PR C 267,300 267,300
(i) Victim compensation, inmate 
payments PR C -0- -0-
(k) Interagency and intra-agency 
assistance; reimbursement to 
counties PR-S A -0- -0-
(ke) Child advocacy centers PR-S A 255,000 255,000
(km) Grants for crime victim services 
supplement - state funds PR-S C -0- -0-
(kp) Reimbursement to counties for 
victim-witness services PR-S A 748,900 748,900
(m) Federal aid; victim compensation PR-F C 1,880,700 1,880,700
(ma) Federal aid; state operations 
relating to crime victim services PR-F C 1,623,500 1,588,300
(mh) Federal aid; victim assistance PR-F C 8,377,900 5,179,300
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 12,686,300 12,980,700 
PROGRAM REVENUE 18,699,600 15,466,800 
 FEDERAL (11,882,100) (8,648,300)
 OTHER (5,712,600) (5,712,600)
 SERVICE (1,104,900) (1,105,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 31,385,900 28,447,500 
20.455 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 94,795,300 87,955,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 84,896,600 82,723,900 
 FEDERAL (24,957,800) (21,716,100)
 OTHER (20,967,900) (20,918,600)
 SERVICE (38,970,900) (40,089,200)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 9,312,200 9,312,500 
 OTHER (9,312,200) (9,312,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 189,004,100 179,991,900 
20.465 Military Affairs, Department of1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 432 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(1) N ATIONAL  GUARD  OPERATIONS
(a) General program operations GPR A 9,579,100 9,798,500
(b) Repair and maintenance GPR A 970,200 970,200
(c) Public emergencies GPR S 4,250,000 4,250,000
(d) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 6,505,800 6,385,900
(dm) Death gratuity GPR S -0- -0-
(e) State flags GPR A 400 400
(em) Conservation of memorials and 
markers related to Wisconsin GPR A -0- -0-
(f) Energy costs; energy-related 
assessments GPR A 2,944,700 3,095,700
(g) Military property PR A 2,079,100 2,079,100
(h) Intergovernmental services PR C -0- -0-
(i) Distance learning centers PR C -0- -0-
(km) Agency services PR-S A 60,800 60,800
(Li) Gifts and grants PR C 156,800 156,800
(m) Federal aid PR-F C 81,425,200 81,428,300
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C 1,630,000 1,630,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 24,250,200 24,500,700 
PROGRAM REVENUE 85,351,900 85,355,000 
 FEDERAL (83,055,200) (83,058,300)
 OTHER (2,235,900) (2,235,900)
 SERVICE (60,800) (60,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 109,602,100 109,855,700 
(2) G UARD  MEMBERS ' BENEFITS
(a) Educational grants GPR S 5,800,000 5,800,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 433 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(r) Military family relief SEG C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 5,800,000 5,800,000 
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 5,800,000 5,800,000 
(3) E MERGENCY  MANAGEMENT  SERVICES
(a) General program operations GPR A 4,952,700 5,011,000
(am) Worker's compensation for local 
unit of government volunteers GPR S 30,000 30,000
(b) State disaster assistance GPR A -0- -0-
(bm) Statewide public safety 
interoperable communication 
system GPR C 79,746,400 -0-
(c) Grant program for public safety 
interoperable communication 
system upgrades GPR A 10,000,000 -0-
(dd) Regional emergency response 
teams GPR A 1,247,400 1,247,400
(df) Regional emergency response 
grants GPR C -0- -0-
(dm) Mobile field force grants GPR C -0- -0-
(dn) Division of emergency 
management; pre-disaster flood 
resilience grants GPR B 1,000,000 1,000,000
(dp) Emergency response equipment GPR A 417,000 417,000
(dr) Emergency response supplement GPR C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 434 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(dt) Emergency response training GPR B 57,900 57,900
(dv) Urban search and rescue task 
force GPR C 1,000,000 500,000
(e) Disaster recovery aid; public 
health emergency quarantine 
costs GPR S 4,500,000 4,500,000
(f) Civil air patrol aids GPR A 16,900 16,900
(g) Program services PR C 2,879,500 2,879,500
(h) Interstate emergency assistance PR A -0- -0-
(hm) Urban search and rescue task 
force supplement PR C -0- -0-
(i) Emergency planning and 
reporting; administration PR A 1,660,300 1,660,300
(j) Division of emergency 
management; gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(jm) Division of emergency 
management; emergency planning 
grants PR C 1,043,800 1,043,800
(jt) Regional emergency response 
reimbursement PR C -0- -0-
(ke) Interagency and intra-agency 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(km) Interoperable communications 
system PR-S A 1,377,300 1,377,3001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 435 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ks) Public safety interoperable 
communication system; state fees PR-S A 50,000 50,000
(L) Public safety interoperable 
communication system; general 
usage fees PR A 50,000 50,000
(m) Federal aid, state operations PR-F C 6,143,800 6,143,800
(mb) Federal aid, homeland security PR-F C 17,265,500 17,265,500
(n) Federal aid, local assistance PR-F C 28,291,700 28,291,700
(o) Federal aid, individuals and 
organizations PR-F C 4,908,300 4,908,300
(q) Interoperability council SEG A 362,000 362,000
(qm) Next Generation 911 SEG B 35,627,100 35,627,100
(qs) Grant program for incumbent 
local exchange carriers SEG B 6,000,000 6,000,000
(r) Division of emergency 
management; petroleum 
inspection fund SEG A 462,100 462,100
(s) State disaster assistance; 
petroleum inspection fund SEG C 1,688,600 1,620,500
(t) Emergency response training - 
environmental fund SEG B 7,600 7,600
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 102,968,300 12,780,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 63,670,200 63,670,200 
 FEDERAL (56,609,300) (56,609,300)
 OTHER (5,633,600) (5,633,600)
 SERVICE (1,427,300) (1,427,300)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 44,147,400 44,079,300 
 OTHER (44,147,400) (44,079,300)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 436 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 210,785,900 120,529,700 
(4) N ATIONAL  GUARD  YOUTH  PROGRAMS
(h) Gifts and grants PR C 1,700 1,700
(ka) Challenge academy program; 
public instruction funds PR-S C 1,372,100 1,372,100
(m) Federal aid PR-F C 4,117,100 4,117,100
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 5,490,900 5,490,900 
 FEDERAL (4,117,100) (4,117,100)
 OTHER (1,700) (1,700)
 SERVICE (1,372,100) (1,372,100)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 5,490,900 5,490,900 
20.465 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 133,018,500 43,080,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 154,513,000 154,516,100 
 FEDERAL (143,781,600) (143,784,700)
 OTHER (7,871,200) (7,871,200)
 SERVICE (2,860,200) (2,860,200)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 44,147,400 44,079,300 
 OTHER (44,147,400) (44,079,300)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 331,678,900 241,676,300 
20.475 District Attorneys
(1) D ISTRICT  ATTORNEYS
(d) Salaries and fringe benefits GPR A 79,974,300 81,417,300
(em) Salary adjustments GPR A 2,947,300 5,841,600
(h) Gifts and grants PR C 3,240,500 3,230,200
(i) Other employees PR A 305,000 305,000
(k) Interagency and intra-agency 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(km) Deoxyribonucleic acid evidence 
activities PR-S A 126,600 126,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 437 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 82,921,600 87,258,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 3,672,100 3,661,800 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (3,545,500) (3,535,200)
 SERVICE (126,600) (126,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 86,593,700 90,920,700 
20.475 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 82,921,600 87,258,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 3,672,100 3,661,800 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (3,545,500) (3,535,200)
 SERVICE (126,600) (126,600)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 86,593,700 90,920,700 
20.485 Veterans Affairs, Department of
(1) V ETERANS  HOMES
(a) Aids to indigent veterans GPR A 178,200 178,200
(e) Lease rental payments GPR S -0- -0-
(f) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 1,347,400 1,438,300
(g) Home exchange PR C 207,000 207,000
(gd) Veterans home cemetery 
operations PR C 5,000 5,000
(gf) Veterans home member care PR C -0- -0-
(gk) Institutional operations PR A 138,966,900 138,966,900
(go) Self-amortizing facilities; 
principal repayment and interest PR S 3,600,300 3,458,800
(h) Gifts and bequests PR C 263,400 263,400
(i) State-owned housing maintenance PR C 15,700 15,7001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 438 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kc) Electric energy derived from 
renewable resources PR-S A 54,000 54,000
(kj) Grants for fire and emergency 
medical services PR-S B 300,000 300,000
(ks) Emergency mitigation PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal aid; care at veterans 
homes PR-F C 1,300 1,300
(mn) Federal projects PR-F C 12,500 12,500
(t) Veterans homes member accounts SEG C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,525,600 1,616,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 143,426,100 143,284,600 
 FEDERAL (13,800) (13,800)
 OTHER (143,058,300) (142,916,800)
 SERVICE (354,000) (354,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 144,951,700 144,901,100 
(2) L OANS  AND AIDS TO VETERANS
(g) Consumer reporting agency fees PR C -0- -0-
(h) Public and private receipts PR C 18,200 18,200
(kg) American Indian services 
coordinator PR-S A 126,700 126,700
(km) American Indian grants PR-S A 61,200 61,200
(m) Federal payments; veterans 
assistance PR-F C 467,300 467,300
(qm) Veterans employment and 
entrepreneurship grants SEG A 500,000 500,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 439 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(qs) Veterans outreach and recovery 
program SEG B 2,302,600 2,392,500
(qw) Veterans mental health services SEG B 5,000,000 -0-
(rm) Veterans assistance programs SEG B 1,711,900 1,861,900
(rn) Fish and game vouchers SEG B 15,000 15,000
(rp) Veterans assistance program 
receipts SEG C 115,500 115,500
(s) Transportation payment SEG A 400,000 400,000
(sm) Military funeral honors SEG S 304,500 304,500
(tf) Veterans tuition reimbursement 
program SEG B 300,000 300,000
(th) Grants to nonprofit organizations SEG B 250,000 250,000
(tj) Retraining assistance program SEG A 200,000 200,000
(tm) Facilities SEG C 50,000 50,000
(u) Administration of loans and aids 
to veterans SEG A 11,745,300 12,990,500
(vm) Veterans assistance grants SEG A 600,000 600,000
(vs) Grants to Camp American Legion SEG A 100,000 100,000
(vu) Grants to American Indian tribes 
and bands SEG A 177,500 177,500
(vw) Payments to veterans 
organizations for claims service SEG A 348,000 348,000
(vx) County grants SEG A 1,103,300 1,103,300
(x) Federal per diem payments SEG-F C 1,343,600 1,343,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 440 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(yn) Veterans trust fund loans and 
expenses SEG B 20,000 20,000
(yo) Debt payment SEG S -0- -0-
(z) Gifts SEG C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 673,400 673,400 
 FEDERAL (467,300) (467,300)
 OTHER (18,200) (18,200)
 SERVICE (187,900) (187,900)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 26,587,200 23,072,300 
 FEDERAL (1,343,600) (1,343,600)
 OTHER (25,243,600) (21,728,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 27,260,600 23,745,700 
(4) V ETERANS  MEMORIAL  CEMETERIES
(a) Cemetery maintenance and 
beautification GPR A 22,200 22,200
(g) Cemetery operations PR C 393,500 393,500
(h) Gifts, grants and bequests PR C 100,000 100,000
(m) Federal aid; cemetery operations 
and burials PR-F C 1,371,800 1,371,800
(q) Cemetery administration and 
maintenance SEG A 1,569,600 1,608,600
(qm) Repayment of principal and 
interest SEG S 15,700 15,700
(r) Cemetery energy costs; energy-
related assessments SEG A 85,000 85,000
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 22,200 22,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,865,300 1,865,300 
 FEDERAL (1,371,800) (1,371,800)
 OTHER (493,500) (493,500)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,670,300 1,709,300 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 441 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 OTHER (1,670,300) (1,709,300)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 3,557,800 3,596,800 
(5) W ISCONSIN  VETERANS  MUSEUM
(c) Operation of Wisconsin Veterans 
Museum GPR A 337,200 337,200
(mn) Federal projects; museum 
acquisitions and operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(tm) Museum facilities SEG C 50,000 50,000
(v) Museum sales receipts SEG C 140,900 140,900
(vo) Veterans of World War I SEG A 2,500 2,500
(wd) Operation of Wisconsin Veterans 
Museum SEG A 3,619,100 3,645,400
(zm) Museum gifts and bequests SEG C -0- -0-
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 337,200 337,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 3,812,500 3,838,800 
 OTHER (3,812,500) (3,838,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,149,700 4,176,000 
(6) A DMINISTRATION
(k) Funds received from other state 
agencies PR-S C -0- -0-
(6)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.485 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,885,000 1,975,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 145,964,800 145,823,300 
 FEDERAL (1,852,900) (1,852,900)
 OTHER (143,570,000) (143,428,500)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 442 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 SERVICE (541,900) (541,900)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 32,070,000 28,620,400 
 FEDERAL (1,343,600) (1,343,600)
 OTHER (30,726,400) (27,276,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 179,919,800 176,419,600 
20.490 Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority
(1) F ACILITATION  OF CONSTRUCTION
(a) Capital reserve fund deficiency GPR C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(2) H OUSING  REHABILITATION  LOAN  PROGRAM
(a) General program operations GPR C -0- -0-
(q) Loan loss reserve fund SEG C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(3) H OMEOWNERSHIP  MORTGAGE  ASSISTANCE
(a) Homeowner eviction lien 
protection program GPR C -0- -0-
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(4) D ISADVANTAGED  BUSINESS  MOBILIZATION  ASSISTANCE
(g) Disadvantaged business 
mobilization loan guarantee PR C -0- -0-
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 443 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(5) W ISCONSIN  DEVELOPMENT  LOAN  GUARANTEES
(a) Wisconsin development reserve 
fund GPR C -0- -0-
(q) Environmental fund transfer to 
Wisconsin development reserve 
fund SEG C -0- -0-
(r) Agrichemical management fund 
transfer to Wisconsin development 
reserve fund SEG C -0- -0-
(s) Petroleum inspection fund 
transfer to Wisconsin development 
reserve fund SEG A -0- -0-
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(6) F UNDS
(am) Residential housing 
infrastructure revolving loan fund GPR C -0- -0-
(b) Main street housing rehabilitation 
revolving loan fund GPR C -0- -0-
(c) Commercial-to-housing conversion 
revolving loan fund GPR C -0- -0-
(d) Housing rehabilitation GPR C -0- -0-
(6)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.490 DEPARTMENT TOTALS1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 444 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
Human Relations and Resources
FUNCTIONAL AREA TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 8,278,160,500 8,366,085,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 16,166,923,900 17,016,056,700 
 FEDERAL (13,571,527,100) (14,366,896,200)
 OTHER (2,134,680,500) (2,186,788,400)
 SERVICE (460,716,300) (462,372,100)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,743,555,500 1,689,528,300 
 FEDERAL (1,343,600) (1,343,600)
 OTHER (1,742,211,900) (1,688,184,700)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
 LOCAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 26,188,639,900 27,071,670,000 
General Executive Functions
20.505 Administration, Department of
(1) S UPERVISION  AND MANAGEMENT
(a) General program operations GPR A 6,903,700 7,341,000
(au) Grant to local professional 
baseball park district GPR S 13,400,000 13,400,000
(av) Loans to local professional 
baseball park district GPR S -0- -0-
(aw) Grants for local projects GPR C 125,000,000 -0-
(b) Midwest interstate low-level 
radioactive waste compact; loan 
from general fund GPR C -0- -0-
(bp) Office of violence prevention; 
general program operations GPR A 597,200 694,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
332025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 445 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(bq) Appropriation obligations 
repayment; tobacco settlement 
revenues GPR A 106,715,300 101,319,800
(br) Appropriation obligations 
repayment; unfunded liabilities 
under the Wisconsin Retirement 
System GPR A 216,734,200 158,782,500
(bs) Office of violence prevention; 
violence reduction initiative 
grants GPR A 3,500,000 8,500,000
(bv) Cybersecurity emergency incident 
response GPR S -0- -0-
(cb) Grants to tribes for alternatives to 
prosecution and incarceration 
programs GPR A -0- 142,500
(cm) Comprehensive planning grants; 
general purpose revenue GPR A -0- -0-
(cn) Comprehensive planning; 
administrative support GPR A -0- -0-
(cp) Translation services GPR A 500,000 500,000
(cv) First class city school district 
audit response support GPR B 5,000,000 -0-
(d) Special counsel GPR S 611,900 611,900
(dm) Justice information systems; 
general purpose revenue GPR A 3,705,000 3,465,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 446 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(e) Supplement to crime victim 
services grant program GPR S -0- -0-
(em) Cybersecurity activities GPR A 414,400 532,500
(ep) Civil legal services GPR C 43,000,000 -0-
(fm) Fund of funds investment program GPR A -0- -0-
(fn) Artificial intelligence tools and 
infrastructure GPR A 193,200 249,600
(fo) Federal resource acquisition 
support grants GPR A -0- -0-
(fp) Walter Schroeder Aquatic Center GPR A -0- -0-
(fr) Grants for local government 
expenditures GPR C -0- -0-
(fy) Harbor commission of the town of 
La Pointe GPR A -0- -0-
(g) Midwest interstate low-level 
radioactive waste compact; 
membership and costs PR A -0- -0-
(gc) Processing services PR A 194,900 194,900
(ge) High-voltage transmission line 
annual impact fee distributions PR C -0- -0-
(gm) Federal resource acquisition PR A 278,100 278,100
(gr) Disabled veteran-owned, woman-
owned, and minority business 
certification fees PR C 31,500 31,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 447 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(gs) High-voltage transmission line 
environmental impact fee 
distributions PR C -0- -0-
(ic) Services to nonstate governmental 
units PR A 153,900 153,900
(id) Justice information fee receipts PR C -0- -0-
(im) Services to nonstate governmental 
units; entity contract PR A 1,357,000 1,356,800
(ip) Information technology and 
communication services; self-
funded portal PR A 8,034,000 8,034,000
(is) Information technology and 
communications services; 
nonstate entities PR A 12,522,700 12,522,700
(it) Appropriation obligations; 
agreements and ancillary 
arrangements PR C -0- -0-
(iu) Plat and proposed incorporation 
and annexation review PR C 429,300 429,300
(iv) Enterprise resource planning 
system; nonstate entities PR C -0- -0-
(j) Gifts, grants, and bequests PR C -0- -0-
(jc) Employee development and 
training services PR A 154,700 154,700
(ka) Materials and services to state 
agencies and certain districts PR-S A 7,461,900 7,560,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 448 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kb) Transportation and records PR-S A 27,599,900 20,167,500
(kc) Capital planning and building 
construction services PR-S A 19,597,700 20,190,200
(kd) Enterprise resource planning 
system PR-S C 10,960,800 10,960,100
(kf) Procurement services PR-S C 5,472,100 5,474,100
(kg) Federal resource acquisition PR-S C -0- -0-
(kh) Justice information systems PR-S A 4,583,200 4,582,500
(ki) Postage costs PR-S C 15,710,100 15,710,100
(kj) Financial services PR-S A 10,583,700 10,582,500
(kL) Printing, mail, communication, 
document sales, and information 
technology services; state 
agencies; veterans services PR-S A 111,679,900 111,652,400
(km) University of Wisconsin-Green 
Bay programming PR-S A 356,800 356,800
(kn) Publications PR A 102,100 102,100
(ko) Pay for success contracts PR-S C -0- -0-
(kp) Youth wellness center PR-S A 1,500,000 1,500,000
(kq) Justice information systems 
development, operation and 
maintenance PR-S A -0- -0-
(kr) Legal services; relocation 
assistance PR-S A 1,842,900 1,895,6001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 449 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ks) Collective bargaining grievance 
arbitrations PR-S A 30,000 30,000
(kt) Tribal grants; other PR-S A 6,010,800 4,660,800
(ku) Management assistance grants to 
counties PR-S A 563,200 563,200
(kx) American Indian economic 
development; technical assistance 
and tourism promotion PR-S A 1,159,000 1,159,000
(ky) Tribal grants PR-S A 24,310,000 28,150,000
(kz) General program operations PR-S A 45,204,800 46,464,400
(mb) Federal aid PR-F C 7,583,700 4,565,000
(n) Federal aid; local assistance PR-F C 90,000,000 90,000,000
(ng) Sale of forest products; funds for 
public schools and public roads PR C -0- -0-
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C 50,100 50,100
(r) Local construction project grants SEG C 23,400,000 16,700,000
(s) Diesel truck idling reduction grant 
administration SEG A -0- -0-
(sa) Diesel truck idling reduction 
grants SEG A -0- -0-
(ub) Land information program, state 
operations; reviews of municipal 
incorporations and annexations; 
planning grants SEG A 828,200 828,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 450 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(uc) Land information program; local 
aids SEG C 15,239,400 15,239,400
(ud) Comprehensive planning grants; 
land information fund SEG A -0- -0-
(v) General program operations - 
environmental improvement 
programs; state funds SEG A 881,000 880,800
(x) General program operations - 
clean water fund program; federal 
funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(y) General program operations - safe 
drinking water loan program; 
federal funds SEG-F C -0- -0-
(z) Transportation planning grants to 
local governmental units SEG-S B -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 526,274,900 295,538,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 415,518,800 409,532,900 
 FEDERAL (97,633,800) (94,615,100)
 OTHER (23,258,200) (23,258,000)
 SERVICE (294,626,800) (291,659,800)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 40,348,600 33,648,200 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (40,348,600) (33,648,200)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 982,142,300 738,720,000 
(2) R ISK MANAGEMENT
(a) General fund supplement - risk 
management claims GPR S -0- -0-
(am) Costs and judgments GPR S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 451 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(k) Risk management costs PR-S C 35,406,200 35,406,200
(ki) Risk management administration PR-S A 23,738,600 26,291,300
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE 59,144,800 61,697,500 
 SERVICE (59,144,800) (61,697,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 59,144,800 61,697,500 
(3) U TILITY  PUBLIC  BENEFITS  AND AIR QUALITY  IMPROVEMENT
(q) General program operations; 
utility public benefits SEG A 12,247,700 12,247,600
(r) Low-income assistance grants SEG S 19,447,300 19,447,300
(rr) Air quality improvement grants SEG S -0- -0-
(s) Transfer to air quality 
improvement fund SEG S -0- -0-
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
SEGREGATED REVENUE 31,695,000 31,694,900 
 OTHER (31,695,000) (31,694,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 31,695,000 31,694,900 
(4) A TTACHED  DIVISIONS  AND OTHER  BODIES
(a) Adjudication of tax appeals GPR A 912,600 640,000
(b) Adjudication of equalization 
appeals GPR S -0- -0-
(c) Telecommunications access for 
educational agencies; general fund GPR B 5,527,400 7,671,400
(cm) Community climate action grants GPR B 10,066,200 84,200
(cp) Community climate engagement 
grant program GPR B 607,800 715,800
(d) Claims awards GPR S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 452 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ea) Women's council operations GPR A 216,100 213,100
(ec) Service award program; general 
program operations GPR A 17,200 17,200
(er) Service award program; state 
awards GPR S 2,993,000 2,993,000
(es) Principal, interest, and rebates; 
general purpose revenue - schools GPR S 155,800 156,000
(et) Principal, interest, and rebates; 
general purpose revenue - public 
library boards GPR S 1,100 300
(f) Interagency council on 
homelessness operations GPR A 117,000 117,000
(fm) National and community service 
board; state scholarship program GPR B 1,600,000 1,600,000
(g) Distance learning authorization 
board; general operations PR C -0- -0-
(h) Program services PR A 29,100 29,000
(ha) Principal, interest, and rebates; 
program revenue - schools PR C -0- -0-
(hb) Principal, interest, and rebates; 
program revenue - public library 
boards PR C -0- -0-
(j) National and community service 
board; gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 453 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(js) Educational technology block 
grants; Wisconsin Advanced 
Telecommunications Foundation 
assessments PR C -0- -0-
(k) Waste facility siting board; general 
program operations PR-S A 45,500 45,500
(ka) State use board - general program 
operations PR-S A 184,000 183,900
(kb) National and community service 
board; administrative support PR-S A 453,700 473,100
(kp) Hearings and appeals fees PR-S A 12,875,600 12,871,900
(L) Equipment purchases and leases PR C -0- -0-
(Lm) Educational telecommunications; 
additional services PR C -0- -0-
(mp) Federal e-rate aid PR-F C 5,771,600 5,771,500
(o) National and community service 
board; federal aid for 
administration PR-F C 1,309,400 1,309,200
(p) National and community service 
board; federal aid for grants PR-F C 3,354,300 3,354,300
(r) State capitol and executive 
residence board; gifts and grants SEG C -0- -0-
(s) Telecommunications access for 
educational agencies SEG B 9,505,900 7,361,900
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 22,214,200 14,208,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 24,023,200 24,038,400 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 454 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
 FEDERAL (10,435,300) (10,435,000)
 OTHER (29,100) (29,000)
 SERVICE (13,558,800) (13,574,400)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 9,505,900 7,361,900 
 OTHER (9,505,900) (7,361,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 55,743,300 45,608,300 
(5) F ACILITIES  MANAGEMENT
(c) Principal repayment and interest; 
Black Point Estate GPR S 164,600 184,300
(g) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; parking PR-S S 2,076,800 2,041,600
(ka) Facility operations and 
maintenance; police and 
protection functions PR-S A 52,828,100 53,911,800
(kb) Parking PR A 1,779,700 1,779,700
(kc) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates PR-S C 24,810,700 20,600,000
(ke) Additional energy conservation 
construction projects PR-S C -0- -0-
(kg) Electric energy derived from 
renewable resources PR-S A 325,400 325,400
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 164,600 184,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 81,820,700 78,658,500 
 OTHER (1,779,700) (1,779,700)
 SERVICE (80,041,000) (76,878,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 81,985,300 78,842,800 
(7) H OUSING  AND COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
(a) General program operations GPR A 1,220,700 1,259,3001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 455 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(b) Housing grants and loans; general 
purpose revenue GPR B 4,097,800 4,097,800
(bp) Housing quality standards grants GPR A 2,000,000 2,000,000
(c) Payments to designated agents GPR A -0- -0-
(fe) Grants for Milwaukee County 
Housing First GPR A 100,000 100,000
(fm) Shelter for homeless and housing 
grants GPR B 10,813,600 10,813,600
(fo) Affordable housing and workforce 
development grants GPR B 1,000,000 -0-
(fq) Grants to incentivize eliminating 
zoning barriers to affordable 
housing GPR B 20,000,000 -0-
(fr) Whole-home upgrade grants GPR C 7,200,000 -0-
(ft) Employment grants GPR A 75,000 75,000
(gg) Housing program services; other 
entities PR C 168,900 168,900
(h) Funding for the homeless PR C 422,400 422,400
(k) Sale of materials or services PR-S C -0- -0-
(kg) Housing program services PR-S C 1,492,800 1,512,200
(m) Federal aid; state operations PR-F C 2,143,700 2,112,100
(n) Federal aid; local assistance PR-F C 10,000,000 10,000,000
(o) Federal aid; individuals and 
organizations PR-F C 22,164,000 22,164,000
(7)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 46,507,100 18,345,700 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 456 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
PROGRAM REVENUE 36,391,800 36,379,600 
 FEDERAL (34,307,700) (34,276,100)
 OTHER (591,300) (591,300)
 SERVICE (1,492,800) (1,512,200)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 82,898,900 54,725,300 
(8) D IVISION  OF GAMING
(am) Interest on racing and bingo 
moneys GPR S -0- -0-
(g) General program operations; 
racing PR A -0- -0-
(h) General program operations; 
Indian gaming PR A 2,111,200 2,110,500
(hm) Indian gaming receipts PR C -0- -0-
(jn) General program operations; 
raffles and bingo PR A 625,500 800,300
(8)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,736,700 2,910,800 
 OTHER (2,736,700) (2,910,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 2,736,700 2,910,800 
20.505 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 595,160,800 328,276,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE 619,636,000 613,217,700 
 FEDERAL (142,376,800) (139,326,200)
 OTHER (28,395,000) (28,568,800)
 SERVICE (448,864,200) (445,322,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 81,549,500 72,705,000 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (81,549,500) (72,705,000)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,296,346,300 1,014,199,600 
20.507 Public Lands, Board of Commissioners of
(1) T RUST  LANDS  AND INVESTMENTS1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
332025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 457 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(a) General program operations GPR A 1,991,000 2,009,400
(c) Payments in lieu of taxes GPR S 35,000 40,000
(h) Trust lands and investments - 
general program operations PR-S A -0- -0-
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(j) Payments to American Indian 
tribes or bands for raised sunken 
logs PR C -0- -0-
(k) Trust lands and investments - 
interagency and intra-agency 
assistance PR-S A -0- -0-
(mg) Federal aid - flood control PR-F C 52,700 52,700
(q) Forest land and timber 
management SEG-S A 313,200 313,200
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 2,026,000 2,049,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 52,700 52,700 
 FEDERAL (52,700) (52,700)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 2,391,900 2,415,300 
20.507 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 2,026,000 2,049,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 52,700 52,700 
 FEDERAL (52,700) (52,700)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 2,391,900 2,415,300 
20.510 Elections Commission
(1) A DMINISTRATION  OF ELECTIONS1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 458 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(a) General program operations; 
general purpose revenue GPR B 6,670,700 6,776,800
(be) Investigations GPR A 25,000 25,000
(bm) Training of chief inspectors GPR B -0- -0-
(bp) Election administration; local aids GPR B 900,000 500,000
(br) Special counsel GPR A -0- -0-
(c) County and municipal clerk 
training GPR A 82,600 82,600
(d) Election administration transfer GPR A -0- -0-
(e) Elections administration GPR A -0- -0-
(f) Local aids for special elections GPR S -0- -0-
(g) Recount fees PR C -0- -0-
(h) Materials and services PR A 9,000 9,000
(jm) Gifts and grants PR A -0- -0-
(jn) Election security and 
maintenance PR C 424,600 424,600
(m) Federal aid PR-F A -0- -0-
(t) Election administration SEG A 100 100
(x) Federal aid; election 
administration fund SEG-F C 1,274,500 1,222,100
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 7,678,300 7,384,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 433,600 433,600 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (433,600) (433,600)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,274,600 1,222,200 
 FEDERAL (1,274,500) (1,222,100)
 OTHER (100) (100)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 459 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 9,386,500 9,040,200 
20.510 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 7,678,300 7,384,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE 433,600 433,600 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (433,600) (433,600)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,274,600 1,222,200 
 FEDERAL (1,274,500) (1,222,100)
 OTHER (100) (100)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 9,386,500 9,040,200 
20.515 Employee Trust Funds, Department of
(1) E MPLOYEE  BENEFIT  PLANS
(a) Annuity supplements and 
payments GPR S 12,200 8,000
(c) Contingencies GPR S -0- -0-
(t) Automated operating system SEG C 30,048,100 30,048,100
(tm) Health savings account plan SEG C -0- -0-
(u) Employee-funded reimbursement 
account plan SEG C -0- -0-
(w) Administration SEG A 48,902,700 49,012,600
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 12,200 8,000 
SEGREGATED REVENUE 78,950,800 79,060,700 
 OTHER (78,950,800) (79,060,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 78,963,000 79,068,700 
20.515 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 12,200 8,000 
SEGREGATED REVENUE 78,950,800 79,060,700 
 OTHER (78,950,800) (79,060,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 78,963,000 79,068,700 
20.521 Ethics Commission
(1) E THICS , CAMPAIGN  FINANCE  AND LOBBYING  REGULATION1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 460 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(a) General program operations; 
general purpose revenue GPR A 4,195,200 3,850,200
(be) Investigations GPR A 225,000 225,000
(br) Special counsel GPR A -0- -0-
(g) General program operations; 
program revenue PR A 31,700 31,700
(h) Gifts and grants PR A -0- -0-
(i) Materials and services PR A 4,500 4,500
(j) Electronic filing software PR A -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 4,420,200 4,075,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 36,200 36,200 
 OTHER (36,200) (36,200)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,456,400 4,111,400 
20.521 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 4,420,200 4,075,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE 36,200 36,200 
 OTHER (36,200) (36,200)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,456,400 4,111,400 
20.525 Governor, Office of the
(1) E XECUTIVE  ADMINISTRATION
(a) General program operations GPR S 4,309,000 4,309,000
(b) Contingent fund GPR S 20,400 20,400
(c) Membership in national 
associations GPR S 140,700 140,700
(d) Disability board GPR S -0- -0-
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 461 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 4,470,100 4,470,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,470,100 4,470,100 
(2) E XECUTIVE  RESIDENCE
(a) General program operations GPR S 364,300 364,300
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 364,300 364,300 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 364,300 364,300 
20.525 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 4,834,400 4,834,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,834,400 4,834,400 
20.536 Investment Board
(1) I NVESTMENT  OF FUNDS
(k) General program operations PR C 102,814,700 102,814,700
(ka) General program operations; 
environmental improvement fund PR-S C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 102,814,700 102,814,700 
 OTHER (102,814,700) (102,814,700)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 102,814,700 102,814,700 
20.536 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 102,814,700 102,814,700 
 OTHER (102,814,700) (102,814,700)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 102,814,700 102,814,700 
20.540 Lieutenant Governor, Office of the
(1) E XECUTIVE  COORDINATION1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
332025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 462 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(a) General program operations GPR A 492,800 492,800
(g) Gifts, grants and proceeds PR C -0- -0-
(k) Grants from state agencies PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 492,800 492,800 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 492,800 492,800 
20.540 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 492,800 492,800 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 492,800 492,800 
20.550 Public Defender Board
(1) L EGAL  ASSISTANCE
(a) Program operation GPR B 138,999,100 141,780,600
(fb) Payments from clients; 
administrative costs PR A 334,400 334,600
(g) Gifts, grants, and proceeds PR C -0- -0-
(h) Contractual agreements PR-S A -0- -0-
(i) Tuition payments PR C -0- -0-
(kj) Conferences and training PR-S A 263,000 263,500
(L) Private bar and investigator 
reimbursement; payments for 
legal representation PR C 913,000 913,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 463 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 138,999,100 141,780,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,510,400 1,511,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (1,247,400) (1,247,600)
 SERVICE (263,000) (263,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 140,509,500 143,291,700 
20.550 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 138,999,100 141,780,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,510,400 1,511,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (1,247,400) (1,247,600)
 SERVICE (263,000) (263,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 140,509,500 143,291,700 
20.566 Revenue, Department of
(1) C OLLECTION  OF TAXES
(a) General program operations GPR A 74,909,400 74,909,400
(bn) Administration and enforcement 
of marijuana tax and regulation GPR A 3,357,600 2,171,400
(g) Administration of county sales and 
use taxes PR A 3,603,700 3,604,500
(ga) Cigarette tax stamps PR A 249,300 249,300
(gb) Business tax registration PR A 2,044,500 2,044,500
(gc) Administration of transit 
authority taxes PR A -0- -0-
(gf) Administration of resort tax PR-S A 72,000 72,000
(gg) Administration of local taxes PR A 182,200 182,200
(gh) Administration of regional transit 
authority fees PR A -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 464 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(gi) Administration of municipality 
taxes of 1st class cities PR-S A 1,100,700 1,100,700
(gj) Administration of municipality 
taxes; generally PR-S A 140,300 171,700
(h) Debt collection PR A 4,861,700 4,989,200
(hb) Collections by the department PR A 1,484,400 1,484,400
(hc) Collections from the financial 
record matching program PR A 655,800 655,800
(hm) Collections under contracts PR S -0- -0-
(hn) Collections under the multistate 
tax commission audit program PR S -0- -0-
(ho) Collections under multistate 
streamlined sales tax project PR S 41,000 41,000
(hp) Administration of income tax 
checkoff voluntary payments PR A 27,300 27,300
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(m) Federal funds; state operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(q) Economic development surcharge 
administration SEG A 308,900 308,900
(qm) Administration of rental vehicle 
fee SEG A 84,900 84,900
(r) Administration of dry cleaner fees SEG A 18,900 18,900
(s) Petroleum inspection fee collection SEG A 100,900 100,900
(t) Farmland preservation credit, 
2010 and beyond SEG A -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 465 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(u) Motor fuel tax administration SEG A 2,050,400 2,054,500
(v) Cigarette, tobacco, and vapor 
product enforcement SEG A 659,900 659,900
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 78,267,000 77,080,800 
PROGRAM REVENUE 14,462,900 14,622,600 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (13,149,900) (13,278,200)
 SERVICE (1,313,000) (1,344,400)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 3,223,900 3,228,000 
 OTHER (3,223,900) (3,228,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 95,953,800 94,931,400 
(2) S TATE  AND LOCAL  FINANCE
(a) General program operations GPR A 10,170,400 10,199,000
(b) Valuation error loans GPR S -0- -0-
(bm) Integrated property assessment 
system technology GPR A 2,545,300 2,545,300
(g) County assessment studies PR C -0- -0-
(ga) Commercial property assessment PR C -0- -0-
(gb) Manufacturing property 
assessment PR A 1,575,100 1,603,700
(gi) Municipal finance report 
compliance PR A 32,800 32,800
(h) Reassessments PR A 273,500 273,500
(hm) Administration of tax incremental, 
and environmental remediation 
tax incremental, financing 
programs PR C 207,400 207,400
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 466 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(m) Federal funds; state operations PR-F C -0- -0-
(q) Railroad and air carrier tax 
administration SEG A 288,500 289,500
(r) Lottery and gaming credit 
administration SEG A 357,500 357,600
(s) Shared revenue and innovation 
grant administration SEG A 376,700 376,700
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 12,715,700 12,744,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,088,800 2,117,400 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (2,088,800) (2,117,400)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,022,700 1,023,800 
 OTHER (1,022,700) (1,023,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 15,827,200 15,885,500 
(3) A DMINISTRATIVE  SERVICES  AND SPACE  RENTAL
(a) General program operations GPR A 35,445,300 35,416,200
(b) Integrated tax system technology GPR A 4,087,100 4,087,100
(c) Expert professional services GPR B 63,300 63,300
(g) Services PR A 81,300 81,300
(gm) Reciprocity agreement and 
publications PR A 36,000 36,000
(go) Reciprocity agreement, Illinois PR A -0- -0-
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(k) Internal services PR-S A 2,938,000 2,903,000
(km) Gaming regulation and 
enforcement PR A 493,400 631,100
(m) Federal funds; state operations PR-F C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 467 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 39,595,700 39,566,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 3,548,700 3,651,400 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (610,700) (748,400)
 SERVICE (2,938,000) (2,903,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 43,144,400 43,218,000 
(4) U NCLAIMED  PROPERTY  PROGRAM
(a) Unclaimed property; contingency 
appropriation GPR S -0- -0-
(j) Unclaimed property; claims PR C -0- -0-
(k) Unclaimed property; 
administrative expenses PR-S A 4,189,000 4,237,500
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE 4,189,000 4,237,500 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (4,189,000) (4,237,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,189,000 4,237,500 
(7) I NVESTMENT  AND LOCAL  IMPACT  FUND
(e) Investment and local impact fund 
supplement GPR A -0- -0-
(g) Investment and local impact fund 
administrative expenses PR A -0- -0-
(n) Federal mining revenue PR-F C -0- -0-
(v) Investment and local impact fund SEG C -0- -0-
(7)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
332025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 468 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(8) L OTTERY
(a) General program operations; 
general purpose revenue GPR A -0- -0-
(b) Retailer compensation GPR A 61,875,100 61,875,100
(c) Vendor fees; general purpose 
revenue GPR A 23,480,300 23,480,300
(q) General program operations SEG A 21,997,400 22,019,500
(r) Retailer compensation SEG S -0- -0-
(s) Prizes SEG S -0- -0-
(v) Vendor fees SEG S -0- -0-
(8)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 85,355,400 85,355,400 
SEGREGATED REVENUE 21,997,400 22,019,500 
 OTHER (21,997,400) (22,019,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 107,352,800 107,374,900 
(9) D IVISION  OF ALCOHOL  BEVERAGES
(g) General program operations PR A 3,475,800 3,636,800
(9)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 3,475,800 3,636,800 
 OTHER (3,475,800) (3,636,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 3,475,800 3,636,800 
20.566 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 215,933,800 214,747,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 27,765,200 28,265,700 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (19,325,200) (19,780,800)
 SERVICE (8,440,000) (8,484,900)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 26,244,000 26,271,300 
 OTHER (26,244,000) (26,271,300)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 269,943,000 269,284,100 
20.575 Secretary of State1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 469 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(1) M ANAGING  AND OPERATING  PROGRAM  RESPONSIBILITIES
(g) General program operations PR A 486,100 528,700
(i) Gifts and grants PR C 20,000 20,000
(ka) Program fees PR C 178,800 229,200
(m) Federal aid PR-F C 20,000 20,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 704,900 797,900 
 FEDERAL (20,000) (20,000)
 OTHER (684,900) (777,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 704,900 797,900 
20.575 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 704,900 797,900 
 FEDERAL (20,000) (20,000)
 OTHER (684,900) (777,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 704,900 797,900 
20.585 Treasurer, State
(1) C USTODIAN  OF STATE  FUNDS
(b) Insurance GPR A -0- -0-
(h) Training conferences PR C -0- -0-
(i) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(k) Administrative expenses PR-S A 225,300 245,300
(kb) General program operations PR-S A -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE 225,300 245,300 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (225,300) (245,300)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 225,300 245,300 
20.585 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE 225,300 245,300 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (225,300) (245,300)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
332025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 470 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 225,300 245,300 
General Executive Functions
FUNCTIONAL AREA TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 969,557,600 703,648,800 
PROGRAM REVENUE 753,179,000 747,374,900 
 FEDERAL (142,449,500) (139,398,900)
 OTHER (152,937,000) (153,659,600)
 SERVICE (457,792,500) (454,316,400)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 188,332,100 179,572,400 
 FEDERAL (1,274,500) (1,222,100)
 OTHER (186,744,400) (178,037,100)
 SERVICE (313,200) (313,200)
 LOCAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,911,068,700 1,630,596,100 
Judicial
20.625 Circuit Courts
(1) C OURT  OPERATIONS
(a) Circuit courts GPR S 93,385,500 93,968,800
(b) Permanent reserve judges GPR A -0- -0-
(cg) Circuit court costs GPR B 28,392,900 28,612,300
(d) Circuit court costs supplement GPR B 24,596,100 70,000,000
(g) Sale of materials and services PR C -0- -0-
(h) Certificates of qualification for 
employment PR C -0- -0-
(jd) Alternatives to prosecution and 
incarceration program PR A -0- -0-
(k) Court interpreters PR-S A 232,700 232,700
(kn) Alternatives to prosecution and 
incarceration; justice information 
fee PR-S A -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 471 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(kv) Programs for criminal offenders PR C -0- -0-
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 146,374,500 192,581,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 232,700 232,700 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (232,700) (232,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 146,607,200 192,813,800 
20.625 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 146,374,500 192,581,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 232,700 232,700 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (232,700) (232,700)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 146,607,200 192,813,800 
20.660 Court of Appeals
(1) A PPELLATE  PROCEEDINGS
(a) General program operations GPR S 12,936,600 12,946,900
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 12,936,600 12,946,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 12,936,600 12,946,900 
20.660 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 12,936,600 12,946,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 12,936,600 12,946,900 
20.665 Judicial Commission
(1) J UDICIAL  CONDUCT
(a) General program operations GPR A 363,100 363,400
(cm) Contractual agreements GPR B 16,200 16,2001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
342025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 472 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(mm) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 379,300 379,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 379,300 379,600 
20.665 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 379,300 379,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 379,300 379,600 
20.670 Judicial Council
(1) A DVISORY  SERVICES  TO THE COURTS  AND THE LEGISLATURE
(a) General program operations GPR A -0- -0-
(k) Director of state courts and law 
library transfer PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.670 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.680 Supreme Court
(1) S UPREME  COURT  PROCEEDINGS
(a) General program operations GPR S 6,606,200 6,618,400
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
332025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 473 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 6,606,200 6,618,400 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 6,606,200 6,618,400 
(2) D IRECTOR  OF STATE  COURTS  AND LAW LIBRARY
(a) General program operations GPR B 13,994,600 13,994,600
(g) Gifts and grants PR C 708,500 708,500
(ga) Court commissioner training PR C 64,700 64,700
(gc) Court interpreter training and 
certification PR C 45,100 45,100
(h) Materials and services PR C 60,300 60,300
(i) Municipal judge training PR C 182,600 182,600
(j) Court information systems PR C 12,597,800 12,679,400
(kc) Central services PR-S A 396,400 584,000
(ke) Interagency and intra-agency 
automation assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(kf) Interagency and intra-agency 
assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(L) Library collections and services PR C 79,400 79,400
(m) Federal aid PR-F C 529,000 529,500
(qm) Mediation fund SEG C 338,800 339,100
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 13,994,600 13,994,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 14,663,800 14,933,500 
 FEDERAL (529,000) (529,500)
 OTHER (13,738,400) (13,820,000)
 SERVICE (396,400) (584,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 338,800 339,100 
 OTHER (338,800) (339,100)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 474 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 28,997,200 29,267,200 
(3) B AR EXAMINERS  AND RESPONSIBILITY
(g) Board of bar examiners PR C 810,800 810,800
(h) Office of lawyer regulation PR C 3,708,300 3,708,300
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE 4,519,100 4,519,100 
 OTHER (4,519,100) (4,519,100)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,519,100 4,519,100 
(4) O FFICE  OF THE MARSHALS  OF THE SUPREME  COURT
(a) General program operations GPR A 1,332,700 1,241,000
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,332,700 1,241,000 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,332,700 1,241,000 
20.680 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 21,933,500 21,854,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 19,182,900 19,452,600 
 FEDERAL (529,000) (529,500)
 OTHER (18,257,500) (18,339,100)
 SERVICE (396,400) (584,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 338,800 339,100 
 OTHER (338,800) (339,100)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 41,455,200 41,645,700 
Judicial
FUNCTIONAL AREA TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 181,623,900 227,761,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 19,415,600 19,685,300 
 FEDERAL (529,000) (529,500)
 OTHER (18,257,500) (18,339,100)
 SERVICE (629,100) (816,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 338,800 339,100 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (338,800) (339,100)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
 LOCAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 201,378,300 247,786,000 
Legislative1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
362025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 475 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
20.765 Legislature
(1) E NACTMENT  OF STATE  LAWS
(a) General program operations-
assembly GPR S 34,374,000 34,374,000
(b) General program operations-
senate GPR S 26,756,700 26,756,700
(d) Legislative documents GPR S 4,219,100 4,219,100
(e) Gifts, grants, and bequests PR C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 65,349,800 65,349,800 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 65,349,800 65,349,800 
(3) S ERVICE  AGENCIES  AND NATIONAL  ASSOCIATIONS
(b) Legislative reference bureau GPR B 7,251,700 7,251,700
(c) Legislative audit bureau GPR B 8,225,700 8,225,700
(cm) Legislative human resources office GPR B 1,564,100 1,564,100
(d) Legislative fiscal bureau GPR B 5,001,300 5,001,300
(e) Joint legislative council; execution 
of functions, conduct of research, 
development of studies, and the 
provision of assistance to 
committees GPR B 4,749,700 4,749,700
(ec) Joint legislative council; 
contractual studies GPR B 25,000 -0-
(em) Legislative technology services 
bureau GPR B 6,378,400 6,450,7001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 476 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(f) Joint committee on legislative 
organization GPR B -0- -0-
(fa) Membership in national 
associations GPR S 326,800 338,100
(fm) WisconsinEye grants GPR B -0- -0-
(g) Gifts and grants to service 
agencies PR C 20,000 20,000
(ka) Audit bureau reimbursable audits PR-S A 2,711,400 2,711,800
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 33,522,700 33,581,300 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,731,400 2,731,800 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (20,000) (20,000)
 SERVICE (2,711,400) (2,711,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 36,254,100 36,313,100 
(4) C APITOL  OFFICES  RELOCATION
(a) Capitol offices relocation costs GPR B -0- -0-
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.765 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 98,872,500 98,931,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,731,400 2,731,800 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (20,000) (20,000)
 SERVICE (2,711,400) (2,711,800)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 101,603,900 101,662,900 
Legislative
FUNCTIONAL AREA TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 98,872,500 98,931,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 2,731,400 2,731,800 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (20,000) (20,000)
 SERVICE (2,711,400) (2,711,800)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
352025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 477 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
 LOCAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 101,603,900 101,662,900 
General Appropriations
20.835 Shared Revenue and Tax Relief
(1) S HARED  REVENUE  PAYMENTS
(a) Property tax freeze incentive 
payments GPR S 111,800,000 226,954,000
(b) Refunds of certain tax payments 
made for nontaxable tribal land GPR S 1,000,000 -0-
(c) County and municipal aid for 
nontaxable tribal land GPR A 566,700 566,700
(d) State aid, state assessed pipelines GPR S -0- 1,000,000
(dm) Public utility distribution account GPR S 103,799,400 112,391,800
(k) State aid; nontaxable tribal land PR-S A -0- -0-
(s) Expenditure restraint incentive 
program account SEG S 58,145,700 58,145,700
(t) County and municipal aid account SEG S 771,396,000 800,968,300
(u) State aid, local government fund; 
tax exempt property SEG A 196,094,200 98,047,100
(v) State aid, local government fund; 
repeal of personal property taxes SEG A 173,800,000 173,800,000
(w) State aid, local government fund; 
personal property tax exemption SEG A 75,622,100 75,622,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 478 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(x) State aid, local government fund; 
video service provider fee SEG A 10,008,200 10,008,200
(y) Supplemental county and 
municipal aid account SEG S 281,189,200 292,346,500
(za) Innovation account SEG C -0- -0-
(zb) Innovation planning grants SEG C -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 217,166,100 340,912,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,566,255,400 1,508,937,900 
 OTHER (1,566,255,400) (1,508,937,900)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,783,421,500 1,849,850,400 
(2) T AX RELIEF
(b) Claim of right credit GPR S 147,000 147,000
(bb) Jobs tax credit GPR S -0- -0-
(bg) Business development credit GPR S 15,400,000 16,500,000
(bm) Film production services credit GPR S -0- -0-
(br) Interest payments on 
overassessments of manufacturing 
property GPR S 10,000 10,000
(c) Property tax and rent rebate GPR S 105,530,000 107,300,000
(cc) Qualified child sales and use tax 
rebate for 2018 GPR S -0- -0-
(co) Enterprise zone jobs credit GPR S 48,000,000 29,200,000
(cp) Electronics and information 
technology manufacturing zone 
credit GPR S 8,743,000 17,690,0001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 479 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(d) Research credit GPR S 27,500,000 30,000,000
(dm) Farmland preservation credit GPR S -0- -0-
(do) Farmland preservation credit, 
2010 and beyond GPR S 21,250,000 21,250,000
(em) Veterans and surviving spouses 
property tax credit GPR S 117,800,000 131,100,000
(ep) Cigarette and tobacco product tax 
refunds GPR S 25,100,000 24,000,000
(eq) Marijuana tax refunds GPR S -0- 2,900,000
(f) Earned income tax credit GPR S 49,822,200 49,530,500
(ff) Earned income tax credit; periodic 
payments GPR S -0- -0-
(kf) Earned income tax credit; 
temporary assistance for needy 
families PR-S A 100,907,800 101,558,500
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 419,302,200 429,627,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 100,907,800 101,558,500 
 SERVICE (100,907,800) (101,558,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 520,210,000 531,186,000 
(3) S TATE  PROPERTY  TAX RELIEF
(b) School levy tax credit and first 
dollar credit GPR S 1,546,962,000 1,672,067,100
(ef) Transfer to conservation fund; 
forestry GPR S 137,528,200 143,420,500
(q) Lottery and gaming credit SEG S 310,229,200 298,604,9001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 480 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(s) Lottery and gaming credit; late 
applications SEG S 1,083,100 1,083,100
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,684,490,200 1,815,487,600 
SEGREGATED REVENUE 311,312,300 299,688,000 
 OTHER (311,312,300) (299,688,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 1,995,802,500 2,115,175,600 
(4) C OUNTY  AND LOCAL  TAXES
(g) County taxes PR C -0- -0-
(gb) Special district taxes PR C -0- -0-
(gc) Transit authority taxes PR C -0- -0-
(gd) Premier resort area tax PR C -0- -0-
(ge) Local professional football 
stadium district taxes PR C -0- -0-
(gg) Local taxes PR C -0- -0-
(gh) Regional transit authority fees PR C -0- -0-
(gi) Municipality taxes of 1st class 
cities PR C -0- -0-
(gj) Municipality taxes; generally PR C -0- -0-
(k) Baseball park facilities 
improvement fund PR-S C -0- -0-
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(5) P AYMENTS  IN LIEU  OF TAXES
(r) Payments for municipal services SEG A 35,584,200 36,996,300
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 481 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
SEGREGATED REVENUE 35,584,200 36,996,300 
 OTHER (35,584,200) (36,996,300)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 35,584,200 36,996,300 
20.835 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 2,320,958,500 2,586,027,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 100,907,800 101,558,500 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (100,907,800) (101,558,500)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,913,151,900 1,845,622,200 
 OTHER (1,913,151,900) (1,845,622,200)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,335,018,200 4,533,208,300 
20.855 Miscellaneous Appropriations
(1) C ASH MANAGEMENT  EXPENSES ; INTEREST  AND PRINCIPAL  REPAYMENT
(a) Obligation on operating notes GPR S -0- -0-
(b) Operating note expenses GPR S -0- -0-
(bm) Payment of canceled drafts GPR S 4,700,000 4,700,000
(c) Interest payments to program 
revenue accounts GPR S -0- -0-
(d) Interest payments to segregated 
funds GPR S -0- -0-
(dm) Interest reimbursements to 
federal government GPR S -0- -0-
(e) Interest on prorated local 
government payments GPR S -0- -0-
(f) Payment of fees to financial 
institutions GPR S -0- -0-
(gm) Payment of canceled drafts; 
program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(q) Redemption of operating notes SEG S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 482 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(r) Interest payments to general fund SEG S -0- -0-
(rm) Payment of canceled drafts; 
segregated revenues SEG S 450,000 450,000
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 4,700,000 4,700,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 450,000 450,000 
 OTHER (450,000) (450,000)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 5,150,000 5,150,000 
(3) C APITOL  RENOVATION  EXPENSES
(b) Capitol restoration and relocation 
planning GPR B -0- -0-
(c) Historically significant 
furnishings GPR B -0- -0-
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(4) T AX, ASSISTANCE  AND TRANSFER  PAYMENTS
(a) Interest on overpayment of taxes GPR S 5,000,000 5,000,000
(am) Great Lakes protection fund 
contribution GPR C -0- -0-
(be) Study of engineering GPR A -0- -0-
(bm) Oil pipeline terminal tax 
distribution GPR S 9,092,200 9,416,400
(bv) General fund supplement to 
veterans trust fund GPR S 24,975,000 22,325,000
(c) Minnesota income tax reciprocity GPR S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 483 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ca) Minnesota income tax reciprocity 
bench mark GPR A -0- -0-
(cm) Illinois income tax reciprocity GPR S 155,800,000 162,100,000
(cn) Illinois income tax reciprocity 
bench mark GPR A -0- -0-
(cr) Transfer to local exposition 
district GPR A 4,000,000 4,000,000
(dr) Transfer to local exposition 
district GPR A 4,000,000 4,000,000
(dt) Transfer for an endowment fund 
for WisconsinEye GPR B -0- -0-
(e) Transfer to conservation fund; 
land acquisition reimbursement GPR S -0- -0-
(em) Transfer to conservation fund; off-
highway motorcycle fees GPR S 112,400 112,400
(f) Transfer to environmental fund; 
nonpoint sources GPR A 7,991,100 7,991,100
(fc) Aids for certain local purchases 
and projects GPR A -0- -0-
(fm) Transfer to transportation fund; 
hub facility exemptions GPR S -0- -0-
(fr) Transfer to transportation fund; 
disaster damage aids GPR S 1,000,000 1,000,000
(gd) American Red Cross, Badger 
Chapter PR C -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 484 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(ge) Feeding America; Second Harvest 
food banks PR C -0- -0-
(h) Volkswagen settlement funds PR C -0- -0-
(q) Terminal tax distribution SEG S 2,200,000 2,200,000
(r) Petroleum allowance SEG S 150,000 150,000
(s) Transfer to conservation fund; 
motorboat formula SEG S 13,166,900 12,959,300
(t) Transfer to conservation fund; 
snowmobile formula SEG S 5,205,300 5,203,700
(u) Transfer to conservation fund; all-
terrain vehicle and utility terrain 
vehicle formula SEG S 3,167,600 3,316,200
(w) Transfer to transportation fund; 
petroleum inspection fund SEG A 6,258,500 6,258,500
(wc) Petroleum inspection fund 
supplement to environmental 
fund; environmental management SEG A 1,704,800 1,704,800
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 211,970,700 215,944,900 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 31,853,100 31,792,500 
 OTHER (31,853,100) (31,792,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 243,823,800 247,737,400 
(5) S TATE  HOUSING  AUTHORITY  RESERVE  FUND
(a) Enhancement of credit of 
authority debt GPR A -0- -0-
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 485 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(6) M ISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS
(g) Gifts and grants PR C -0- -0-
(h) Vehicle and aircraft receipts PR A -0- -0-
(i) Miscellaneous program revenue PR A -0- -0-
(j) Custody accounts PR C -0- -0-
(k) Aids to individuals and 
organizations PR-S C -0- -0-
(ka) Local assistance PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal aid PR-F C -0- -0-
(pz) Indirect cost reimbursements PR-F C -0- -0-
(6)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(8) M ARQUETTE  UNIVERSITY
(a) Dental clinic and education 
facility; principal repayment, 
interest and rebates GPR S 831,500 493,300
(8)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 831,500 493,300 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 831,500 493,300 
(9) S TATE  CAPITOL  RENOVATION  AND RESTORATION
(a) South wing renovation and 
restoration GPR C -0- -0-
(9)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
292025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 486 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.855 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 217,502,200 221,138,200 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 32,303,100 32,242,500 
 OTHER (32,303,100) (32,242,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 249,805,300 253,380,700 
20.865 Program Supplements
(1) E MPLOYEE  COMPENSATION  AND SUPPORT
(a) Judgments and legal expenses GPR S -0- -0-
(c) Compensation and related 
adjustments GPR S -0- -0-
(ci) University pay adjustments GPR S -0- -0-
(cj) Pay adjustments for certain 
university employees GPR A -0- -0-
(d) Employer fringe benefit costs GPR S -0- -0-
(dm) Discretionary merit compensation 
program GPR A -0- -0-
(e) Additional biweekly payroll GPR A -0- -0-
(em) Financial and procurement 
services GPR A -0- -0-
(fm) Risk management GPR A -0- -0-
(fn) Physically handicapped 
supplements GPR A 5,800 5,8001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 487 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(fo) Salary and fringe benefit costs 
incurred in enterprise 
assessments and billings; general 
purpose revenue GPR A 1,537,000 2,828,000
(g) Judgments and legal expenses; 
program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(gm) Salary and fringe benefit costs 
incurred in enterprise 
assessments and billings; program 
revenue PR S 1,011,400 1,861,000
(i) Compensation and related 
adjustments; program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(ic) University pay adjustments PR S -0- -0-
(j) Employer fringe benefit costs; 
program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(jm) Additional biweekly payroll; 
nonfederal program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(js) Financial and procurement 
services; program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(kr) Risk management; program 
revenues PR S -0- -0-
(Ln) Physically handicapped 
supplements; program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(m) Additional biweekly payroll; 
federal program revenues PR-F S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 488 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(mz) Salary and fringe benefit costs 
incurred in enterprise 
assessments and billings; federal 
funds PR-F S 257,500 473,900
(q) Judgments and legal expenses; 
segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(s) Compensation and related 
adjustments; segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(si) University pay adjustments SEG S -0- -0-
(t) Employer fringe benefit costs; 
segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(tm) Additional biweekly payroll; 
nonfederal segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(ts) Financial and procurement 
services; segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(tz) Salary and fringe benefit costs 
incurred in enterprise 
assessments and billings; 
segregated revenues SEG S 897,100 1,650,500
(ur) Risk management; segregated 
revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(vn) Physically handicapped 
supplements; segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(x) Additional biweekly payroll; 
federal segregated revenues SEG-F S -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,542,800 2,833,800 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 489 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,268,900 2,334,900 
 FEDERAL (257,500) (473,900)
 OTHER (1,011,400) (1,861,000)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 897,100 1,650,500 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (897,100) (1,650,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 3,708,800 6,819,200 
(2) S TATE  PROGRAMS  AND FACILITIES
(a) Private facility rental increases GPR A -0- -0-
(ag) State-owned office rent 
supplement GPR A -0- -0-
(am) Space management GPR A -0- -0-
(d) State deposit fund GPR S -0- -0-
(e) Maintenance of capitol and 
executive residence GPR A -0- -0-
(eb) Executive residence furnishings 
replacement GPR C 10,200 10,200
(em) Groundwater survey and analysis GPR A 182,500 182,500
(g) Private facility rental increases; 
program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(gg) State-owned office rent 
supplement; program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(gm) Space management; program 
revenues PR S -0- -0-
(i) Enterprise resource planning 
system; program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(j) State deposit fund; program 
revenues PR S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 490 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(L) Data processing and 
telecommunications study; 
program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(q) Private facility rental increases; 
segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(qg) State-owned office rent 
supplement; segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(qm) Space management; segregated 
revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(r) Enterprise resource planning 
system; segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(t) State deposit fund; segregated 
revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 192,700 192,700 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 192,700 192,700 
(3) T AXES  AND SPECIAL  CHARGES
(a) Property taxes GPR S -0- -0-
(g) Property taxes; program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(i) Payments for municipal services; 
program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(q) Property taxes; segregated 
revenues SEG S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 491 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(s) Payments for municipal services; 
segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(4) J OINT  COMMITTEE  ON FINANCE  SUPPLEMENTAL  APPROPRIATIONS
(a) General purpose revenue funds 
general program supplementation GPR B 133,600 133,600
(g) Program revenue funds general 
program supplementation PR S -0- -0-
(k) Public assistance programs 
supplementation PR-S C -0- -0-
(m) Federal funds general program 
supplementation PR-F C -0- -0-
(u) Segregated funds general program 
supplementation SEG S -0- -0-
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 133,600 133,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 133,600 133,600 
(8) S UPPLEMENTATION  OF PROGRAM  REVENUE  AND PROGRAM  REVENUE  - SERVICE  APPROPRIATIONS1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
302025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 492 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(g) Supplementation of program 
revenue and program revenue - 
service appropriations PR S -0- -0-
(8)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.865 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 1,869,100 3,160,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,268,900 2,334,900 
 FEDERAL (257,500) (473,900)
 OTHER (1,011,400) (1,861,000)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 897,100 1,650,500 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (897,100) (1,650,500)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,035,100 7,145,500 
20.866 Public Debt
(1) B OND SECURITY  AND REDEMPTION  FUND
(u) Principal repayment and interest SEG S -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.866 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.867 Building Commission
(1) S TATE  OFFICE  BUILDINGS
(a) Principal repayment and interest; 
housing of state agencies GPR S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
322025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 493 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(b) Principal repayment and interest; 
capitol and executive residence GPR S 2,112,800 1,817,600
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 2,112,800 1,817,600 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 2,112,800 1,817,600 
(2) A LL STATE -OWNED  FACILITIES
(b) Asbestos removal GPR A -0- -0-
(c) Hazardous materials removal GPR A -0- -0-
(d) Long-range building program; 
general purpose revenues GPR A -0- -0-
(f) Facilities preventive maintenance GPR A -0- -0-
(q) Building trust fund SEG C -0- -0-
(r) Planning and design SEG C -0- -0-
(u) Aids for buildings SEG C -0- -0-
(v) Building program funding 
contingency SEG C -0- -0-
(w) Building program funding SEG C -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(3) S TATE  BUILDING  PROGRAM
(a) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 48,890,000 58,708,900
(b) Principal repayment and interest GPR S 2,361,900 2,061,200
(bb) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; AIDS Network, Inc. GPR S 24,400 22,3001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
272025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 494 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(bc) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; Grand Opera House in 
Oshkosh GPR S 43,700 11,400
(bd) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; Aldo Leopold climate 
change classroom and interactive 
laboratory GPR S 19,300 70,300
(be) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; Bradley Center Sports 
and Entertainment Corporation GPR S 582,500 549,000
(bf) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; AIDS Resource Center of 
Wisconsin, Inc. GPR S 65,100 59,500
(bg) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Madison Children's 
Museum GPR S 20,300 18,600
(bh) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Myrick Hixon EcoPark, 
Inc. GPR S 32,400 32,000
(bj) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; Lac du Flambeau Indian 
Tribal Cultural Center GPR S 15,400 21,400
(bL) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; family justice center GPR S 620,200 511,500
(bm) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; HR Academy, Inc. GPR S 3,000 9,1001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 495 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(bn) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; Hmong cultural center GPR S 20,400 20,900
(bo) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; psychiatric and 
behavioral health treatment beds; 
Marathon County GPR S 368,300 365,200
(bq) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; children's research 
institute GPR S 611,200 728,600
(br) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates GPR S 12,200 4,100
(bt) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Wisconsin Agriculture 
Education Center, Inc. GPR S 340,900 326,700
(bu) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; Civil War exhibit at the 
Kenosha Public Museums GPR S 61,300 43,900
(bv) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Bond Health Center GPR S 27,500 113,600
(bw) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Eau Claire Confluence 
Arts, Inc. GPR S 1,024,200 862,700
(bx) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Carroll University GPR S 157,500 139,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 496 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cb) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; Domestic Abuse 
Intervention Services, Inc. GPR S 33,600 34,500
(cd) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; K I Convention Center GPR S 113,700 63,200
(cf) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Dane County; livestock 
facilities GPR S 554,400 769,000
(ch) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Wisconsin Maritime 
Center of Excellence GPR S 300,000 328,600
(cj) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Norskedalen Nature and 
Heritage Center GPR S 8,700 56,100
(cq) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; La Crosse Center GPR S 312,800 309,400
(cr) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; St. Ann Center for 
Intergenerational Care, Inc.; 
Bucyrus Campus GPR S 321,100 331,000
(cs) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Brown County innovation 
center GPR S 322,200 319,500
(cv) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; Beyond Vision; 
VisABILITY Center GPR S 357,800 359,5001
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
262025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 497 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(cw) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; projects GPR S 804,700 1,125,900
(cx) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates; center GPR S 1,089,100 1,085,900
(cz) Museum of nature and culture GPR S 903,800 2,134,000
(d) Interest rebates on obligation 
proceeds; general fund GPR S -0- -0-
(e) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; parking ramp GPR S -0- -0-
(g) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; program revenues PR S -0- -0-
(h) Principal repayment, interest, and 
rebates PR S -0- -0-
(i) Principal repayment, interest and 
rebates; capital equipment PR S -0- -0-
(k) Interest rebates on obligation 
proceeds; program revenues PR-S C -0- -0-
(kd) Energy conservation construction 
projects; principal repayment, 
interest and rebates PR-S C 1,218,900 1,728,200
(km) Aquaculture demonstration 
facility; principal repayment and 
interest PR-S A -0- -0-
(q) Principal repayment and interest; 
segregated revenues SEG S -0- -0-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
252025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 498 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
(r) Interest rebates on obligation 
proceeds; conservation fund SEG S -0- -0-
(s) Interest rebates on obligation 
proceeds; transportation fund SEG S -0- -0-
(t) Interest rebates on obligation 
proceeds; veterans trust fund SEG S -0- -0-
(w) Bonding services SEG S 1,024,200 1,024,200
(x) Segregated revenue supported 
building program projects; 
inflationary project cost overruns SEG C -0- -0-
(3)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 60,423,600 71,597,000 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,218,900 1,728,200 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (1,218,900) (1,728,200)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,024,200 1,024,200 
 OTHER (1,024,200) (1,024,200)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 62,666,700 74,349,400 
(4) C APITAL  IMPROVEMENT  FUND  INTEREST  EARNINGS
(q) Funding in lieu of borrowing SEG C -0- -0-
(r) Interest on veterans obligations SEG C -0- -0-
(4)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(5) S ERVICES  TO NONSTATE  GOVERNMENTAL  UNITS
(g) Financial consulting services PR C -0- -0-
(5)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
PROGRAM REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
312025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 499 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
20.867 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 62,536,400 73,414,600 
PROGRAM REVENUE 1,218,900 1,728,200 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
 SERVICE (1,218,900) (1,728,200)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,024,200 1,024,200 
 OTHER (1,024,200) (1,024,200)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 64,779,500 76,167,000 
20.875 Budget Stabilization Fund
(1) T RANSFERS  TO FUND
(a) General fund transfer GPR S -0- -0-
(1)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
(2) T RANSFERS  FROM  FUND
(q) Budget stabilization fund transfer SEG A -0- -0-
(2)  PROGRAM  TOTALS
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
20.875 DEPARTMENT TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE -0- -0- 
SEGREGATED REVENUE -0- -0- 
 OTHER (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES -0- -0- 
General Appropriations
FUNCTIONAL AREA TOTALS
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 2,602,866,200 2,883,740,500 
PROGRAM REVENUE 103,395,600 105,621,600 
 FEDERAL (257,500) (473,900)
 OTHER (1,011,400) (1,861,000)
 SERVICE (102,126,700) (103,286,700)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 1,947,376,300 1,880,539,400 
 FEDERAL (-0-) (-0-)
 OTHER (1,947,376,300) (1,880,539,400)
 SERVICE (-0-) (-0-)
 LOCAL (-0-) (-0-)
TOTAL-ALL SOURCES 4,653,638,100 4,869,901,500 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
382025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 500 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  135
STATUTE , AGENCY  AND PURPOSE SOURCE TYPE 2025-2026 2026-2027
STATE TOTALS 59,360,264,900 59,614,924,600 
GENERAL PURPOSE REVENUE 25,490,504,000 24,994,296,100 
PROGRAM REVENUE 25,172,014,200 26,010,864,800 
 FEDERAL (16,785,547,600) (17,575,969,600)
 OTHER (7,231,184,400) (7,280,008,700)
 SERVICE (1,155,282,200) (1,154,886,500)
SEGREGATED REVENUE 8,697,746,700 8,609,763,700 
 FEDERAL (1,334,172,900) (1,344,122,700)
 OTHER (6,985,876,000) (6,954,434,500)
 SERVICE (228,371,400) (161,050,700)
 LOCAL (149,326,400) (150,155,800)
SECTION  136.  20.115 (2) (jm) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.115 (2) (jm)  Veterinary examining board, dog licensing, rabies control 
program, and humane officers.   All moneys received from issuing and renewing 
credentials under ch. 89 for the licensing, rule-making, and regulatory functions of 
the veterinary examining board and to provide dog license tags and forms under s. 
174.07 (2), to perform other program responsibilities under ch. 174, to administer 
the rabies control program under s. 95.21, to help administer the rabies control 
media campaign, and to carry out activities under s. 93.07 (11) and ch. 173.
SECTION  137.  20.115 (3) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (3) (e)  Food waste reduction grants.   The amounts in the schedule for 
providing food waste reduction grants under s. 93.53.
SECTION  138.  20.115 (3) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (3) (f)  Meat processing tuition and curriculum development grants.   
The amounts in the schedule for providing meat processing tuition grants and 
curriculum development grants under s. 93.525.
SECTION  139.  20.115 (4) (aq) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (4) (aq)  Food security and Wisconsin products grants.   As a continuing 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
282025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 501 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  139
appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for food security and Wisconsin 
products grants under s. 93.62.
SECTION  140.  20.115 (4) (ar) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (4) (ar)  Value-added agricultural practices.   Biennially, the amounts in 
the schedule for value-added agricultural practices under s. 93.61.
SECTION  141.  20.115 (4) (at) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (4) (at)  Farm to fork program.   Biennially, the amounts in the schedule 
for farm to fork grants under s. 93.63.
SECTION  142.  20.115 (4) (ds) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (4) (ds)  Dairy agriculture resilience investment now grant pilot 
program.   Annually, the amounts in the schedule for providing grants under, and 
the administration of, the dairy agriculture resilience investment now grant pilot 
program under s. 93.54.
SECTION  143.  20.115 (4) (t) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (4) (t)  Transition to grass pilot program.   From the environmental 
fund, the amounts in the schedule for the transition to grass pilot program under s. 
93.60.
SECTION  144.  20.115 (7) (ac) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (7) (ac)  Sandhill crane damage reimbursements.   As a continuing 
appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for the sandhill crane damage 
reimbursement program under s. 93.67.
SECTION  145.  20.115 (7) (br) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (7) (br)  Principal repayment and interest; agricultural conservation 
easements.   A sum sufficient to reimburse s. 20.866 (1) (u) for the principal and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 502 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  145
interest costs incurred in purchasing agricultural conservation easements under s. 
93.73, to make the payments determined by the building commission under s. 
13.488 (1) (m) that are attributable to the proceeds of obligations incurred to 
purchase agricultural conservation easements under s. 93.73, and to make 
payments under an agreement or ancillary arrangement entered into under s. 
18.06 (8) (a).
SECTION  146.  20.115 (7) (da) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (7) (da)  Biodigester operator certification grants.   The amounts in the 
schedule for biodigester operator certification grants under s. 93.75.
SECTION  147.  20.115 (7) (gc) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.115 (7) (gc)  Industrial hemp and marijuana.   All moneys received under s. 
94.55 for regulation of activities relating to industrial hemp under s. 94.55 and to 
marijuana under s. 94.56.
SECTION  148.  20.115 (7) (ge) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (7) (ge)  Marijuana producers and processors; official logotype.   All 
moneys received under s. 94.56 for regulation of activities relating to marijuana 
under s. 94.56, for conducting public awareness campaigns under s. 94.56, and for 
the creation of a logotype under s. 100.145.
SECTION  149.  20.115 (7) (qf) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.115 (7) (qf)  Soil and water management; aids.   From the environmental 
fund, the amounts in the schedule for cost-sharing grants and contracts under the 
soil and water resource management program under s. 92.14, but not for the 
support of local land conservation personnel, and for producer-led watershed 
protection grants under s. 93.59.  Prior to fiscal year 2021-22, the department shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 503 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  149
allocate funds, in an amount that does not exceed $750,000 in each fiscal year, for 
the producer-led watershed protection grants.  Beginning in In fiscal year years 
2021-22 to 2024-25, the department shall allocate funds, in an amount that does 
not exceed $1,000,000 in each fiscal year, for the producer-led watershed protection 
grants.  Beginning in fiscal year 2025-26, the department shall allocate funds, in an 
amount that does not exceed $1,250,000 in each fiscal year, for the producer-led 
watershed protection grants.
SECTION  150.  20.115 (7) (qm) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (7) (qm)  Commercial nitrogen optimization program.   Biennially, from 
the environmental fund, the amounts in the schedule for the commercial nitrogen 
optimization program under s. 92.14 (16).
SECTION  151.  20.115 (7) (tb) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (7) (tb)  Principal and interest; agricultural conservation easements.   
From the working lands fund, the amounts in the schedule to reimburse s. 20.866 
(1) (u) for the principal and interest costs incurred in purchasing agricultural 
conservation easements under s. 93.73, to make the payments determined by the 
building commission under s. 13.488 (1) (m) that are attributable to the proceeds of 
obligations incurred to purchase agricultural conservation easements under s. 
93.73, and to make payments under an agreement or ancillary agreement entered 
into under s. 18.06 (8) (a).
SECTION  152.  20.115 (7) (tm) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.115 (7) (tm)  Farmland preservation planning grants, working lands fund.   
From the working lands fund, the amounts in the schedule for farmland 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 504 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  152
preservation planning grants under s. 91.10 (6) and for farmland preservation 
implementation grants under s. 91.10 (7).
SECTION  153.  20.115 (7) (u) of the statutes is created to read:
20.115 (7) (u)  Planning grants for regional biodigesters.   From the 
environmental fund, the amounts in the schedule for providing planning grants for 
establishing regional biodigesters under s. 93.74.
SECTION  154.  20.144 (1) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.144 (1) (g)  General program operations.   The amounts in the schedule for 
the general program operations of the department of financial institutions.  Except 
as provided in pars. (a), (h), (i), (j), and (u) and sub. (3), all moneys received by the 
department, other than by the office of credit unions and the division of banking, 
and 88 percent of all moneys received by the office of credit unions and the 
department [s division of banking shall be credited to this appropriation, but any 
balance at the close of a fiscal year under this appropriation shall lapse to the 
general fund.  Annually, $150,000 $555,400 of the amounts received under this 
appropriation account shall be transferred to the appropriation account under s. 
20.575 (1) (g).
SECTION  155.  20.145 (1) (a) of the statutes is created to read:
20.145 (1) (a)  State operations.   The amounts in the schedule for general 
program operations.
SECTION  156.  20.145 (1) (g) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.145 (1) (g)  General program operations.   (intro.)  The amounts in the 
schedule for general program operations, including organizational support services 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 505 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  156
and, oversight of care management organizations, development of a public option 
health insurance plan, and operation of a state-based exchange under s. 601.59, and 
for transferring to the appropriation account under s. 20.435 (4) (kv) the amount 
allocated by the commissioner of insurance.  Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (a), at 
the end of each fiscal year, the unencumbered balance in this appropriation account 
that exceeds 10 percent of that fiscal year [s expenditure under this appropriation 
shall lapse to the general fund.  All of the following shall be credited to this 
appropriation account:
SECTION  157.  20.145 (1) (g) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
20.145 (1) (g) 1.  All moneys received under ss. 601.25 (2), 601.31, 601.32, 
601.42 (7), 601.45, and 601.47 and by the commissioner for expenses related to 
insurance company restructurings, except for restructurings specified in par. (h).
SECTION  158.  20.145 (1) (g) 4. of the statutes is created to read:
20.145 (1) (g) 4.  All moneys received under s. 601.59.
SECTION  159.  20.145 (1) (g) 5. of the statutes is created to read:
20.145 (1) (g) 5.  All moneys received from the regulation of pharmacy benefit 
managers, pharmacy benefit management brokers, pharmacy benefit management 
consultants, pharmacy services administration organizations, and pharmaceutical 
representatives.
SECTION  160.  20.155 (2) (title) of the statutes is renumbered 20.395 (7) (title).
SECTION  161.  20.155 (2) (g) of the statutes is renumbered 20.395 (7) (ag).
SECTION  162.  20.155 (2) (m) of the statutes is renumbered 20.395 (7) (am).
SECTION  163.  20.155 (3) (a) of the statutes is created to read:
20.155 (3) (a)  Broadband expansion grants; general purpose revenue.   As a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 506 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  163
continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for broadband expansion 
grants under s. 196.504 (2).
SECTION  164.  20.155 (3) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
20.155 (3) (b)  Brownfield renewable energy generation grants.   Biennially, the 
amounts in the schedule for brownfield renewable energy generation grants under 
s. 196.94.
SECTION  165.  20.155 (3) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
20.155 (3) (c)  Nuclear energy feasibility study.   Biennially, the amounts in the 
schedule to conduct a nuclear power plant feasibility study.
SECTION  166.  20.155 (3) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
20.155 (3) (e)  Energy innovation grant program.  Biennially, the amounts in 
the schedule for the energy innovation grant program under s. 196.379.
SECTION  167.  20.165 (1) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
20.165 (1) (e)  Statewide clinician wellness program   The amounts in the 
schedule for the statewide clinician wellness program under s. 440.03 (18).
SECTION  168.  20.165 (1) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.165 (1) (g)  General program operations.   The amounts in the schedule for 
the licensing, rule making, and regulatory functions of the department, other than 
the licensing, rule-making, and credentialing functions of the medical examining 
board and the affiliated credentialing boards attached to the medical examining 
board and except for preparing, administering, and grading examinations; for any 
costs associated with the interstate medical licensure compact under s. 448.980, 
including payment of assessments under s. 448.980 (13) (a); for the examination 
and approval of proprietary school programs under s. 440.52; for indemnifying 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 507 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  168
students, parents, or sponsors under s. 440.52 (10) (a) and for preserving under s. 
440.52 (11) the students records of schools, as defined in s. 440.52 (11) (a) 2., that 
have discontinued their operations; for administrative costs of taking possession of, 
preserving, and providing copies of student records of schools, as defined in s. 
440.52 (11) (a) 2., that have discontinued their operations; and for the controlled 
substances board [s operation of the prescription drug monitoring program under s. 
961.385.  Ninety percent of all moneys received under chs. 440 to 480, except ch. 448 
and ss. 440.03 (13), 440.05 (1) (b), 458.21, and 458.365, less $10 of each renewal fee 
received under s. 452.12 (5); 90 percent of all moneys received from the issuance of 
solicitor[s permits under s. 440.52 (8) and from the fees under s. 440.52 (10) and all 
moneys received from the fees under s. 440.52 (13) (d); all moneys transferred from 
the appropriation under par. (i); and all moneys received under s. 440.055 (2); all 
moneys received from fees received under s. 440.52 (10) (c) 4.; all moneys received 
from fees collected under s. 440.52 (11) (d); and all moneys received from the 
interstate medical licensure compact commission under s. 448.980, shall be 
credited to this appropriation.
SECTION  169.  20.165 (1) (hg) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  170.  20.165 (1) (jm) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.165 (1) (jm)  Nursing workforce survey administration.   Biennially, the 
amounts in the schedule for administrative expenses related to distributing a 
nursing workforce survey to applicants for renewal of credentials nurse licensees 
under s. 441.01 (7).  All moneys received from the fee under s. 441.01 (7) (a) 2. shall 
be credited to this appropriation account.  Annually, there is transferred from this 
appropriation account to the appropriation account under s. 20.445 (1) (km) all 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 508 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  170
moneys received from the fee under s. 441.01 (7) (a) 2. that are not appropriated to 
this appropriation account.
SECTION  171.  20.165 (1) (jr) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  172.  20.165 (1) (jt) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  173.  20.165 (1) (jv) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  174.  20.165 (2) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
20.165 (2) (b)  Cost offsets for 3rd-party administered trade examinations.   The 
amounts in the schedule to reduce the cost of examinations required to obtain an 
occupational license, as defined in s. 101.02 (1) (a) 2., that are administered by a 3rd 
party.
SECTION  175.  20.165 (2) (j) of the statutes, as affected by 2017 Wisconsin Act 
331, section 2, is amended to read:
20.165 (2) (j)  Safety and building operations.   The amounts in the schedule for 
the purposes of chs. 101 and 145 and ss. 167.35, 236.12 (2) (ap), 236.13 (1) (d) and 
(2m), and 236.335, for administrative and support services for programs 
administered by the department relating to the regulation of industry, buildings, 
and safety and for the purpose of transferring the amounts in the schedule under 
par. (kf) to the appropriation account under par. (kf).  All moneys received under ch. 
145 and ss. 101.178, 101.19, 101.63 (9), 101.654 (3), 101.73 (12), 101.82 (4), 101.955 
(2), 167.35 (2) (f), and 236.12 (7) and all moneys received by the department under 
this subsection as payment for administrative and support services for programs 
administered by the department, except for moneys directed to be deposited under 
par. (ks), shall be credited to this appropriation account.
SECTION  176.  20.165 (2) (ka) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 509 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  176
20.165 (2) (ka)  Interagency agreements.   All moneys received through 
contracts or financial agreements for provision of services to other state agencies 
relating to the regulation of industry, buildings, and safety, except moneys 
appropriated under par. (kd) (j) or (ks), for the purpose of providing the services.
SECTION  177.  20.165 (2) (kd) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  178.  20.165 (2) (kf) of the statutes is created to read:
20.165 (2) (kf)  Private on-site wastewater treatment system replacement and 
rehabilitation.   As a continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for 
financial assistance under the private on-site wastewater treatment system 
replacement and rehabilitation program under s. 145.246.  All moneys transferred 
from par. (j) shall be credited to this appropriation account.
SECTION  179.  20.192 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.192 (1) (a)  Operations and programs.   A sum sufficient in each fiscal year 
equal to the amount obtained by subtracting from $41,550,700 $46,000,000 an 
amount equal to the sum of the amounts expended in that fiscal year from the 
appropriations under pars. (r) and (s), for the operations of the Wisconsin Economic 
Development Corporation and for funding economic development programs 
developed and implemented under s. 238.03.  No more than $16,512,500 may be 
expended from this appropriation in any fiscal year, and moneys may be expended 
from this appropriation only if there are no unencumbered moneys available in the 
appropriation account under par. (r).
SECTION  180.  20.225 (1) (kb) of the statutes is renumbered 20.225 (1) (d) and 
amended to read:
20.225 (1) (d)  Emergency weather warning system operation.   From the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 510 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  180
moneys received by the department of administration for the provision of state 
telecommunications to state agencies, the The amounts in the schedule for the 
operation of the emergency weather warning system under s. 39.11 (21).
SECTION  181.  20.235 (3) (title) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  182.  20.235 (3) (g) of the statutes is renumbered 20.505 (4) (g), and 
20.505 (4) (g) (title), as renumbered, is amended to read:
20.505 (4) (g) (title)  General Distance learning authorization board; general 
operations.
SECTION  183.  20.245 (1) (y) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.245 (1) (y)  Northern great lakes center; operational support and interpretive 
programming.   From the conservation fund, the amounts in the schedule for 
operational support of, and interpretive programming at, the Northern Great Lakes 
Center.
SECTION  184.  20.255 (1) (ac) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (1) (ac)  Farm to School program.   The amounts in the schedule to 
provide matching funds for grants under 42 USC 1769 (g) (3), the federal Farm to 
School Program.
SECTION  185.  20.255 (1) (be) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (1) (be)  Early childhood special education; coaches.  The amounts in 
the schedule for regional child care collaboration coaches under s. 115.887. 
SECTION  186.  20.255 (1) (en) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (1) (en)  Information technology systems modernization.   As a 
continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for the purpose of 
modernizing information technology systems used by the department.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 511 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  187
SECTION  187.  20.255 (1) (er) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (1) (er)  Educators Rising; grants for local chapters.   The amounts in 
the schedule for grants under s. 115.407.
SECTION  188.  20.255 (1) (fd) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (1) (fd)  General educational development test fee payments.   A sum 
sufficient for payments to GED Testing Service LLC, or its successor, under s. 
115.28 (67) (a).
SECTION  189.  20.255 (1) (hg) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.255 (1) (hg)  Personnel licensure, teacher supply, information and analysis, 
and teacher improvement.   The amounts in the schedule All moneys received from 
the licensure of school and public library personnel under s. 115.28 (7) (d) and all 
moneys received under s. 115.41 to fund licensure administrative costs under s. ss. 
115.28 (7) (d) and 118.19 (10), teacher supply, information and analysis costs under 
s. 115.29 (5), and teacher improvement under s. 115.41.  Ninety percent of all 
moneys received from the licensure of school and public library personnel under s. 
115.28 (7) (d), and all moneys received under s. 115.41, shall be credited to this 
appropriation.
SECTION  190.  20.255 (2) (az) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.255 (2) (az)  Special Needs Scholarship Program.   A sum sufficient to make 
the payments under s. 115.7915 (4m) (a), (cm), and (e) and (4p).
SECTION  191.  20.255 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.255 (2) (b)  Aids for special education and school age parents programs.   The 
amounts in the schedule A sum sufficient for the payment of the full cost of special 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 512 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  191
education for children in hospitals and convalescent homes under s. 115.88 (4) and 
for the payment of aids for special education and school age parents programs 
under ss. 115.88, 115.93 and 118.255 as provided under s. 115.882.
SECTION  192.  20.255 (2) (bd) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.255 (2) (bd)  Additional special education aid.   The amounts in the schedule 
A sum sufficient for aid under s. 115.881.
SECTION  193.  20.255 (2) (bp) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (2) (bp)  Health emergencies in learning places; grants.   Biennially, the 
amounts in the schedule for grants under s. 115.28 (68) to school boards, 
independent charter schools, and private schools participating in a program under 
s. 115.7915, 118.60, or 119.23.
SECTION  194.  20.255 (2) (cc) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.255 (2) (cc)  Bilingual-bicultural education aids.   The amounts in the 
schedule for bilingual-bicultural education programs aid under subch. VII of ch. 
115 s. 115.995.
SECTION  195.  20.255 (2) (ce) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (2) (ce)  Aid for English language acquisition.   A sum sufficient for aid  
under s. 115.9955 .
SECTION  196.  20.255 (2) (cg) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.255 (2) (cg)  Tuition payments; full-time open enrollment transfer payments.   
The amounts in the schedule for payment of tuition under subch. V of ch. 121 and 
full-time open enrollment transfer payments under s. 118.51 (16) (b) 2. and (17) (c) 
2. and (cm) 2.
SECTION  197.  20.255 (2) (ck) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 513 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  197
20.255 (2) (ck)  Supplemental nutrition aid.   A sum sufficient for payments 
under s. 115.3415.
SECTION  198.  20.255 (2) (da) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.255 (2) (da)  Aid for school mental health programs; pupil services 
professionals.   The amounts in the schedule for aid to school districts and 
independent charter schools employ, hire, and retain pupil services professionals 
under s. 115.364.
SECTION  199.  20.255 (2) (dk) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (2) (dk)  Aid for career and technical education.   Biennially, the 
amounts in the schedule for payments to school boards and independent charter 
schools under s. 115.433.
SECTION  200.  20.255 (2) (ds) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
20.255 (2) (ds)  Computer science education grants.   The amounts in the 
schedule for grants to school boards under s. 115.28 (29).
SECTION  201.  20.255 (2) (dt) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.255 (2) (dt) (title)  School-based Aid for comprehensive school  mental health 
services grants.
SECTION  202.  20.255 (2) (dv) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (2) (dv)  Aid for period products.   The amounts in the schedule for aid to 
schools for the provision of period products under s. 115.351 (2).
SECTION  203.  20.255 (2) (dw) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (2) (dw)  Water bottle filling station; grants.   The amounts in the 
schedule for grants to school districts and independent charter schools under s. 
115.335.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 514 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  204
SECTION  204.  20.255 (2) (eb) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.255 (2) (eb)  Grant Grants for information technology education.   The 
amounts in the schedule for the grant grants for information technology under s. 
115.455.
SECTION  205.  20.255 (2) (ef) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (2) (ef)  Personal financial literacy grants.   Biennially, the amounts in 
the schedule for financial literacy curriculum grants under s. 115.28 (72).
SECTION  206.  20.255 (2) (eh) of the statutes is renumbered 20.437 (2) (eh) and 
amended to read:
20.437 (2) (eh)  Head start supplement.   The amounts in the schedule for the 
head start supplement under s. 115.3615 49.39.
SECTION  207.  20.255 (2) (fj) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (2) (fj)  Grow your own programs; teacher pipeline capacity building.   
The amounts in the schedule for grants under s. 115.422 to school districts and 
operators of a charter school under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x).
SECTION  208.  20.255 (2) (kg) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (2) (kg)  Grants to replace certain race-based nicknames, logos, mascots, 
and team names.   The amounts in the schedule for grants to school boards under s. 
118.134 (6).  All moneys transferred from the appropriation account under s. 20.505 
(8) (hm) 26. shall be credited to this appropriation account.  Notwithstanding s. 
20.001 (3) (a), the unencumbered balance on June 30 of each year shall revert to the 
appropriation account under s. 20.505 (8) (hm).
SECTION  209.  20.255 (3) (cj) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 515 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  209
20.255 (3) (cj)  Student teacher stipends.   A sum sufficient for payments to 
student teachers under s. 115.421.
SECTION  210.  20.255 (3) (ck) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (3) (ck)  Cooperating  teacher stipends.   A sum sufficient for payments to 
teachers under s. 115.424.
SECTION  211.  20.255 (3) (cL) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (3) (cL)  Library intern stipend payments.   A sum sufficient for library 
intern stipend payments under s. 43.05 (12m).
SECTION  212.  20.255 (3) (ct) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (3) (ct)  Career and technical student organizations; grants.   The 
amounts in the schedule for grants to career and technical student organizations 
under s. 115.28 (30) (f).
SECTION  213.  20.255 (3) (fa) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.255 (3) (fa)  Very special arts Arts for All.   The amounts in the schedule for 
very special arts Arts for All Wisconsin, incorporated.
SECTION  214.  20.255 (3) (fs) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (3) (fs)  The Literacy Lab.   The amounts in the schedule for payments to 
The Literacy Lab under s. 115.28 (71).
SECTION  215.  20.255 (3) (ft) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (3) (ft)  Early literacy tutoring; grants.   The amounts in the schedule for 
early literacy tutoring grants under s. 115.395.
SECTION  216.  20.255 (3) (fv) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (3) (fv)  Graduation Alliance.   The amounts in the schedule for 
payments to Graduation Alliance, Inc., under s. 115.28 (70).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 516 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  217
SECTION  217.  20.255 (3) (fw) of the statutes is created to read:
20.255 (3) (fw)  Mentor Greater Milwaukee.   Biennially, the amounts in the 
schedule for grants to Mentor Greater Milwaukee, Inc., under s. 115.28 (69).
SECTION  218.  20.292 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.292 (1) (f)  Grants to district boards.   As a continuing appropriation, the 
amounts in the schedule for aids and grants to technical college districts under ss. 
38.04 (13) (a), (20), (25), (28), and (32) (a), 38.26, 38.27, 38.272, 38.28 (4), 38.29, 
38.32, 38.33, 38.38, 38.40 (4m), and 38.41.
SECTION  219.  20.320 (2) (a) of the statutes is created to read:
20.320 (2) (a)  Lead service line replacement.   As a continuing appropriation, 
the amounts in the schedule for lead service line replacement loans under s. 281.61 
(8) (b).
SECTION  220.  20.370 (1) (es) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (1) (es)  Parks and forests  interpretive programs.   All moneys received 
from fees authorized under s. 27.01 (9) (a) 4. for educational and interpretive 
programs in state parks or state forests to be used for costs associated with those 
programs.
SECTION  221.  20.370 (1) (fe) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (1) (fe)  Endangered resources  general fund.   From the general fund, 
a sum sufficient in fiscal year 1993-94 and in each fiscal year thereafter that equals 
the sum of the amount certified in that fiscal year under s. 71.10 (5) (h) 3. for the 
previous fiscal year and the amounts received under par. (fu) in that fiscal year for 
the purposes of the endangered resources program, as defined in s. 71.10 (5) (a) 2.  
The amount appropriated under this subdivision may not exceed $500,000 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 517 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  221
$950,000 in a fiscal year, except that the amount appropriated under this 
subdivision in fiscal year 2005-06 may not exceed $364,000 and the amount 
appropriated under this subdivision in fiscal year 2006-07 may not exceed 
$364,000.
SECTION  222.  20.370 (1) (ga) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (1) (ga)  Kenosha Dunes restoration.  As a continuing appropriation 
from the general fund, the amounts in the schedule for erosion control projects in 
the Kenosha Dunes unit of the Chiwaukee Prairie state natural area in Kenosha 
County.
SECTION  223.  20.370 (1) (kf) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (1) (kf)  Wild rice stewardship in ceded territory waters.  From the 
general fund, the amounts in the schedule for wild rice stewardship efforts 
conducted, in consultation with federally recognized American Indian tribes or 
bands domiciled in this state, within the waters of areas where the American 
Indian tribes or bands hold treaty-based rights to harvest wild rice.  Of the amounts 
in the schedule for each fiscal year, not less than $50,000 shall be allocated for 
public education and outreach pertaining to wild rice harvesting.
SECTION  224.  20.370 (1) (mr) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (1) (mr)  General program operations - forestry funds.   From the moneys 
received by the department for forestry activities, the amounts in the schedule for 
the operation of fish, wildlife, and parks programs.
SECTION  225.  20.370 (1) (mu) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (1) (mu)  General program operations  state funds.   The amounts in 
the schedule for general program operations that are conducted under ss. 23.09 to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 518 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  225
23.11, 27.01, 30.203, 30.277, and 90.21, and chs. 29 and 169, for activities conducted 
under the ecological inventory and monitoring program of the endangered 
resources program, for the aquatic and terrestrial resources inventory under s. 
23.09 (2) (km), and for providing the signage required under s. 23.118, and for 
payments of $53,700 in each fiscal year, to be credited to the appropriation account 
under s. 20.285 (1) (k), to the University of Wisconsin System for outdoor skills 
training under s. 29.598.
SECTION  226.  20.370 (2) (cr) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (2) (cr)  Forestry  recording fees.   From the conservation fund, all 
moneys received under ss. 77.82 (2m) (d) and (4) and 77.88 (1) (c), (2) (ac) 1., 2., and 
3., (am), and (c), (3), (3j) (c), and (3m) for the payment of fees to the registers of 
deeds under s. 77.91 (5).
SECTION  227.  20.370 (2) (jq) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (2) (jq)  Forestry-industry-wide strategic plan.   From the conservation 
fund, from the moneys received for forestry activities, as a continuing 
appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for the forestry-industry-wide strategic 
plan and road map under 2025 Wisconsin Act .... (this act), section 9132 (4).
SECTION  228.  20.370 (3) (ak) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  229.  20.370 (3) (mu) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (3) (mu)  General program operations  state funds.   The amounts in 
the schedule for law enforcement operations under ss. 23.09 to 23.11, 90.21, and 
323.12 (2) (c) and chs. 29, 30, and 169, and for payments of $53,700 in each fiscal 
year, to be credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.285 (1) (k), to the 
University of Wisconsin System for outdoor skills training under s. 29.598.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 519 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  230
SECTION  230.  20.370 (4) (aa) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (4) (aa)  Kewaunee Marsh remediation.  As a continuing appropriation 
from the general fund, the amounts in the schedule for development of a remedial 
action plan and for the remediation of arsenic contamination in the Kewaunee 
Marsh in Kewaunee County.
SECTION  231.  20.370 (4) (aj) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (4) (aj)  Water resourcesballast water discharge permits commercial 
vessel arrival fees.   From the general fund, all moneys received from fees collected 
under s. 283.35 (1m) to administer and enforce the ballast water discharge permit 
program under s. 283.35 (1m) and for grants under 2009 Wisconsin Act 28, section 
9137 (3w) s. 299.65 for management, administration, inspection, monitoring, and 
enforcement activities relating to incidental discharges, including ballast water 
discharges.
SECTION  232.  20.370 (4) (at) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (4) (at)  Amcast superfund site.   From the environmental fund, as a 
continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for remedial action relating 
to the Amcast superfund site in Cedarburg.
SECTION  233.  20.370 (4) (pf) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (4) (pf)  General program operations  PFAS; general fund.  As a 
continuing appropriation, from the general fund, the amounts in the schedule for 
addressing and preventing perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances 
contamination in this state.
SECTION  234.  20.370 (4) (pq) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (4) (pq)  General program operations  PFAS innocent landowner 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 520 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  234
remediation.  As a continuing appropriation, from the environmental fund, the 
amounts in the schedule for actions taken under s. 292.31 to address and prevent 
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances contamination in this state.
SECTION  235.  20.370 (5) (aa) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (5) (aa)  Resource aids  nonprofit conservation organizations.   From 
the general fund, the amounts in the schedule for grants to nonprofit conservation 
organizations under ss. 23.0955, 23.0956, 281.69 (1r), and 281.72 and for grants 
under 2025 Wisconsin Act .... (this act), section 9132 (1).
SECTION  236.  20.370 (5) (fu) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (5) (fu)  Deer carcass disposal sites.   As a continuing appropriation, the 
amounts in the schedule to provide financial assistance under s. 29.063 (7).
SECTION  237.  20.370 (5) (fy) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (5) (fy)  Resource aids  wildfire suppression reimbursement.  From 
the moneys received by the department for forestry activities, a sum sufficient to 
reimburse local fire departments under the fire suppression aids program under s. 
26.145.
SECTION  238.  20.370 (5) (ha) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (5) (ha)  Grants to nonprofit conservation organizations.   As a 
continuing appropriation, from the general fund, the amounts in the schedule for 
grants to nonprofit conservation organizations under s. 23.0961.
SECTION  239.  20.370 (5) (hb) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (5) (hb)  Tribal co-management program.   As a continuing 
appropriation, from the general fund, the amounts in the schedule for the tribal co-
management program under s. 23.0966.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 521 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  240
SECTION  240.  20.370 (5) (hk) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (5) (hk)  Fish hatcheries operated by tribes.  From the general fund, the 
amounts in the schedule for providing grants to federally recognized American 
Indian tribes or bands for maintenance and repair of fish hatcheries operated by 
the tribe or band.  All moneys transferred from the appropriation account under s. 
20.505 (8) (hm) 8m. shall be credited to this appropriation account.  
Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (a), the unencumbered balance on June 30 of each 
year shall revert to the appropriation account under s. 20.505 (8) (hm).
SECTION  241.  20.370 (5) (hq) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (5) (hq)  Department land acquisition.   From As a continuing 
appropriation, from the moneys received by the department for forestry activities, 
the amounts in the schedule for transfer to the capital improvement fund the 
purposes specified in s. 23.09 (2) (d).
SECTION  242.  20.370 (5) (hr) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (5) (hr)  County forest grants.   From As a continuing appropriation, 
from the moneys received by the department for forestry activities, the amounts in 
the schedule for transfer to the capital improvement fund grants to counties under 
s. 23.0953.
SECTION  243.  20.370 (6) (aa) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (6) (aa)  Environmental aids ] winter road safety improvement.   As a 
continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for grants under the winter 
road safety improvement grants program under s. 281.73.
SECTION  244.  20.370 (6) (et) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (6) (et)  Environmental aids   Revitalize Wisconsin program.   1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 522 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  244
Biennially, from the environmental fund, the amounts in the schedule for aid 
awards under s. 292.66.
SECTION  245.  20.370 (6) (eu) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (6) (eu)  Environmental aids   waste removal and sampling.   
Biennially, from the environmental fund, the amounts in the schedule to provide 
financial assistance for the purpose of removing waste materials that have 
accumulated or been dumped on abandoned properties and to conduct sampling 
and testing to determine if those properties pose a risk to public health and safety 
or the environment.
SECTION  246.  20.370 (6) (ew) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (6) (ew)  Environmental aids  county well testing grant program.   
From the PFAS fund, as a continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule 
for the county well testing grant program under s. 281.54.
SECTION  247.  20.370 (7) (bd) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (7) (bd)  Building demolition.   As a continuing appropriation, from the 
general fund, the amounts in the schedule for demolition of buildings on property 
owned by the department.
SECTION  248.  20.370 (9) (bj) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (9) (bj)  Storm water management  fees.   From the general fund, the 
amounts in the schedule all moneys received under s. 283.33 (9) and under 2009 
Wisconsin Act 28, section 9110 (11f), for the administration, including enforcement, 
of the storm water discharge permit program under s. 283.33.  All moneys received 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 523 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  248
under s. 283.33 (9) and under 2009 Wisconsin Act 28, section 9110 (11f) shall be 
credited to this appropriation account.
SECTION  249.  20.370 (9) (hk) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (9) (hk)  Approval fees to Lac du Flambeau band-service funds.   From 
the general fund, the amounts in the schedule for the purpose of making payments 
to the Lac du Flambeau band of the Lake Superior Chippewa under s. 29.2295 (4) 
(a).  All moneys transferred from the appropriation account under s. 20.505 (8) (hm) 
8r. shall be credited to this appropriation account.  Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) 
(b), the unencumbered balance on June 30 of each odd-numbered year shall revert 
to the appropriation account under s. 20.505 (8) (hm).
SECTION  250.  20.370 (9) (hw) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (9) (hw)  Credit card handling fees.   As a continuing appropriation, all 
moneys received by the department as provided under s. 27.01 (19) for fees 
associated with using a credit card for vehicle admission receipt and camping fees.
SECTION  251.  20.370 (9) (jq) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.370 (9) (jq)  Off-highway motorcycle administration.   As a continuing 
appropriation, an amount equal to the amount determined under s. 23.335 (20) (a) 
in that fiscal year for the purposes specified under s. 23.335 (20) (b) and (d), for 
issuing and renewing off-highway motorcycle registration under s. 23.335 (3), (4), 
and (5), for grants under the safety grant program under s. 23.335 (15), and for 
state and local law enforcement operations related to off-highway motorcycles.  All 
moneys received under s. 23.335 (6) shall be credited to this appropriation account.  
All moneys attributable to off-highway motorcycles and deposited in the 
conservation fund under s. 25.29 (1) (b) are credited to this appropriation account. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 524 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  252
SECTION  252.  20.370 (9) (pq) of the statutes is created to read:
20.370 (9) (pq)  Great Lakes and Mississippi River erosion control revolving 
loan programs.  As a continuing appropriation, from the environmental fund, the 
amounts in the schedule for the Great Lakes erosion control revolving loan program 
under s. 23.1991 and the Mississippi River erosion control revolving loan program 
under s. 23.1993.  All moneys received as loan origination fees and repayments of 
loan principal and interest under ss. 23.1991 and 23.1993 shall be credited to this 
appropriation account.
SECTION  253.  20.380 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.380 (1) (b)  Tourism marketing; general purpose revenue.   Biennially, the 
amounts in the schedule for tourism marketing service expenses and the execution 
of the functions under ss. 41.11 (4) and 41.17.  In each fiscal year, the department 
shall expend for tourism marketing service expenses and the execution of the 
functions under ss. 41.11 (4) and 41.17 an amount that bears the same proportion 
to the amount in the schedule for the fiscal year as the amount expended under par. 
(kg) in that fiscal year bears to the amount in the schedule for par. (kg) for that 
fiscal year.  Of the amounts under this paragraph, not more than 50 percent shall 
be used to match funds allocated under s. 41.17 by private or public organizations 
for the joint effort marketing of tourism with the state.
SECTION  254.  20.380 (1) (kg) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  255.  20.395 (1) (ba) of the statutes is created to read:
20.395 (1) (ba)  Transit capital assistance grants.   From the general fund, as a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 525 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  255
continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for transit capital assistance 
grants under s. 85.203.
SECTION  256.  20.395 (2) (cq) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.395 (2) (cq)  Harbor assistance, state funds.   As a continuing appropriation, 
the amounts in the schedule for harbor assistance under s. 85.095 (2) (a), for 
administration of the harbor assistance program under s. 85.095 and for grants 
under 1999 Wisconsin Act 9, section 9150 (4f), 2013 Wisconsin Act 20, section 9145 
(4i) and (4u), 2015 Wisconsin Act 55, section 9145 (1c), 2017 Wisconsin Act 59, 
section 9145 (4d), and 2023 Wisconsin Act 19, section 9144 (2), and 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), section 9144 (3).
SECTION  257.  20.395 (2) (fc) of the statutes is created to read:
20.395 (2) (fc)  Local roads improvement program; agricultural roads, general 
fund.   From the general fund, as a continuing appropriation, the amounts in the 
schedule for improvements to local agricultural roads under s. 86.31 (3o).
SECTION  258.  20.395 (2) (fq) of the statutes is renumbered 20.395 (2) (fd) and 
amended to read:
20.395 (2) (fd)  Local roads improvement discretionary supplement.   As a 
continuing appropriation from the general fund, the amounts in the schedule for 
the local roads improvement discretionary supplemental grant program under s. 
86.31 (3s) and for the grants under 2025 Wisconsin Act .... (this act), section 9144 
(5) and (6).
SECTION  259.  20.395 (2) (ja) of the statutes is created to read:
20.395 (2) (ja)  Local traffic calming grants.   From the general fund, as a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 526 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  259
continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for the local traffic calming 
grant program under s. 85.024.
SECTION  260.  20.395 (3) (cq) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.395 (3) (cq)  State highway rehabilitation, state funds.   As a continuing 
appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for improvement of existing state trunk 
and connecting highways; for improvement of bridges on state trunk or connecting 
highways and other bridges for which improvement is a state responsibility, for 
necessary approach work for such bridges and for replacement of such bridges with 
at-grade crossing improvements; for the construction and rehabilitation of the 
national system of interstate and defense highways and bridges and related 
appurtenances; for activities under s. 84.04 on roadside improvements; for bridges 
under s. 84.10; for the bridge project under s. 84.115; for payment to a local unit of 
government for a jurisdictional transfer under s. 84.02 (8); for the disadvantaged 
business demonstration and training program under s. 84.076; for the purpose 
specified in s. 84.017 (3); for the transfers required under 1999 Wisconsin Act 9, 
section 9250 (1) and 2003 Wisconsin Act 33, section 9153 (4q); and for the purposes 
described under 1999 Wisconsin Act 9, section 9150 (8g), 2001 Wisconsin Act 16, 
section 9152 (4e), 2007 Wisconsin Act 20, section 9148 (9i) (b) and (9x), 2021 
Wisconsin Act 58, section 9144 (5), and 2023 Wisconsin Act 19, section 9144 (8), and 
2025 Wisconsin Act .... (this act), section 9144 (1).  This paragraph does not apply to 
any southeast Wisconsin freeway megaprojects under s. 84.0145, to any southeast 
Wisconsin freeway rehabilitation projects under s. 84.014 that also qualify as major 
highway projects under s. 84.013, or to the installation, replacement, rehabilitation, 
or maintenance of highway signs, traffic control signals, highway lighting, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 527 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  260
pavement markings, or intelligent transportation systems, unless incidental to the 
improvement of existing state trunk and connecting highways.
SECTION  261.  20.395 (3) (cs) of the statutes is created to read:
20.395 (3) (cs)  State highway rehabilitation, service funds.   All moneys 
received from the fund created under s. 18.57 (1) as reimbursement for the 
temporary financing under sub. (9) (th) of state highway rehabilitation projects for 
the purposes specified under sub. (3) (cq) that are financed under s. 84.59, for the 
purpose of financing such projects.
SECTION  262.  20.395 (4) (jq) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.395 (4) (jq)  Transportation facilities and highway projects revenue 
obligation funding.   As a continuing appropriation, all proceeds from revenue 
obligations issued under s. 84.59 and deposited into the fund created under s. 18.57 
(1), for the transportation administrative facilities purposes of s. 84.01 (28) and, for 
major highway projects as defined under s. 84.013 (1) (a) for the purposes of ss. 
84.06 and 84.09, and for state highway rehabilitation projects for the purposes 
specified in sub. (3) (cq), providing for reserves and for expenses of issuance and 
management of the revenue obligations.  Estimated disbursements under this 
paragraph shall not be included in the schedule under s. 20.005.
SECTION  263.  20.395 (5) (eq) of the statutes is renumbered 20.395 (5) (ep) and 
amended to read:
20.395 (5) (ep)  Driver education grants, state funds.   As a continuing 
appropriation, from the general fund, the amounts in the schedule for driver 
education grants.  All moneys lapsed to the general fund under s. 20.145 (1) (g), but 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 528 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  263
not to exceed to $6,000,000 in a fiscal year, shall be credited to this appropriation 
account.
SECTION  264.  20.395 (9) (th) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.395 (9) (th)  Temporary funding of projects financed by revenue bonds.   A 
sum sufficient to provide initial, temporary funding for any project to be financed 
under s. 84.59 which is a major highway project enumerated under s. 84.013 (3) or 
a project under s. 84.01 (28) approved under s. 13.48 (10) or authorized under s. 
84.01 (30) or a state highway rehabilitation project for a purpose specified in sub. (3) 
(cq).  The department shall keep a separate account of expenditures under this 
paragraph for each such project.  As soon as moneys become available from the 
proceeds of the obligation issued under s. 84.59 to finance that project, an amount 
equal to the amounts expended under this paragraph shall be paid from those 
proceeds into the transportation fund and credited to the appropriation account 
under sub. (3) (br) or (cs) or (4) (at).
SECTION  265.  20.410 (3) (ab) of the statutes is created to read:
20.410 (3) (ab)  Contract payments for placement of juveniles.   A sum 
sufficient, not to exceed $20,000,000 in each fiscal year, for payments made in 
accordance with contracts for placement of juveniles who are under the supervision 
of the department of corrections under ch. 938.
SECTION  266.  20.410 (3) (ab) of the statutes, as created by 2025 Wisconsin Act 
... (this act), is repealed.
SECTION  267.  20.410 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
20.410 (4)  OFFICE  OF THE OMBUDSPERSON  FOR CORRECTIONS .  (a)  General 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 529 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  267
program operations.   The amounts in the schedule for the general program 
operations of the office of the ombudsperson for corrections.
(i)  Gifts and grants.   All moneys received from gifts and grants to carry out the 
purposes for which made.
(k)  Interagency and intra-agency assistance.   All moneys received from the 
department or any other state agency to carry out the purposes for which received.
(m)  Federal aid.   All moneys received as federal aid as authorized by the 
governor under s. 16.54 to carry out the purposes for which received.
SECTION  268.  20.425 (1) (i) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.425 (1) (i)  Fees, collective bargaining training, publications, and appeals.   
The amounts in the schedule for the performance of fact-finding, mediation, 
certification, and arbitration functions, for the provision of copies of transcripts, for 
the cost of operating training programs under ss. 111.09 (3), 111.71 (5m), and 
111.94 (3), for the preparation of publications, transcripts, reports, and other copied 
material, and for costs related to conducting appeals under s. 230.45.  All moneys 
received under ss. 111.09 (1) and (2), 111.70 (4) (d) 3. b., 111.71 (1) and (2), 111.83 
(3) (b), 111.94 (1) and (2), and 230.45 (3), all moneys received from arbitrators and 
arbitration panel members, and individuals who are interested in serving in such 
positions, and from individuals and organizations who participate in other 
collective bargaining training programs conducted by the commission, and all 
moneys received from the sale of publications, transcripts, reports, and other copied 
material shall be credited to this appropriation account.
SECTION  269.  20.427 (1) (ra) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.427 (1) (ra)  Worker[s compensation operations fund; worker [s compensation 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 530 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  269
activities.   From the worker [s compensation operations fund, the amounts in the 
schedule for the worker [s compensation activities of the labor and industry review 
commission.  All moneys transferred from the appropriation account under s. 
20.445 (1) (ra) shall be credited to this appropriation account.
SECTION  270.  20.435 (1) (ck) of the statutes is created to read:
20.435 (1) (ck)  Emergency medical services grants.   The amounts in the 
schedule for grants to municipalities to improve or expand emergency medical 
services under s. 256.42.
SECTION  271.  20.435 (1) (ef) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.435 (1) (ef)  Lead-poisoning or lead-exposure services.   The As a continuing 
appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for the purposes of providing grants 
under s. 254.151.
SECTION  272.  20.435 (1) (fi) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  273.  20.435 (1) (fk) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.435 (1) (fk)  Grants to establish advanced practice clinician health care 
provider training programs.   Biennially, the amounts in the schedule for grants to 
hospitals, health systems, clinics, and educational entities that form health care 
education and training consortia under s. 146.615.
SECTION  274.  20.435 (2) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.435 (2) (g)  Alternative services of institutes and centers.   All moneys 
received as payments for services under ss. 46.043 and 51.06 (1r) and (5) for 
provision of alternative services by mental health institutes under s. 46.043 and by 
centers for the developmentally disabled under s. 51.06 (1r).
SECTION  275.  20.435 (2) (gk) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 531 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  275
20.435 (2) (gk)  Institutional operations and charges.   The amounts in the 
schedule for care, other than under s. 51.06 (1r), provided by the centers for the 
developmentally disabled, to reimburse the cost of providing the services and to 
remit any credit balances to county departments that occur on and after 
July 1, 1978, in accordance with s. 51.437 (4rm) (c); for care, other than under s. 
46.043, provided by the mental health institutes, to reimburse the cost of providing 
the services and to remit any credit balances to county departments that occur on 
and after January 1, 1979, in accordance with s. 51.42 (3) (as) 2.; for care of 
juveniles placed at the Mendota juvenile treatment center for whom counties are 
financially responsible under s. 938.357 (3) (d), to reimburse the cost of providing 
that care; for maintenance of state-owned housing at centers for the 
developmentally disabled and mental health institutes; for repair or replacement of 
property damaged at the mental health institutes or at centers for the 
developmentally disabled; for reimbursing the total cost of using, producing, and 
providing services, products, and care; and to transfer to the appropriation account 
under sub. (5) (kp) for funding centers.  All moneys received as payments from 
medical assistance on and after August 1, 1978; as payments from all other sources 
including other payments under s. 46.10 and payments under s. 51.437 (4rm) (c) 
received on and after July 1, 1978; as medical assistance payments, other payments 
under s. 46.10, and payments under s. 51.42 (3) (as) 2. received on and after 
January 1, 1979; as payments from counties for the care of juveniles placed at the 
Mendota juvenile treatment center; as payments for the rental of state-owned 
housing and other institutional facilities at centers for the developmentally 
disabled and mental health institutes; for the sale of electricity, steam, or chilled 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 532 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  275
water; as payments in restitution of property damaged at the mental health 
institutes or at centers for the developmentally disabled; for the sale of surplus 
property, including vehicles, at the mental health institutes or at centers for the 
developmentally disabled; and for other services, products, and care shall be 
credited to this appropriation, except that any payment under s. 46.10 received for 
the care or treatment of patients admitted under s. 51.10, 51.15, or 51.20 for which 
the state is liable under s. 51.05 (3), of forensic patients committed under ch. 971 or 
975, admitted under ch. 975, or transferred under s. 51.35 (3), or of patients 
transferred from a state prison under s. 51.37 (5), to the Mendota Mental Health 
Institute or the Winnebago Mental Health Institute shall be treated as general 
purpose revenue  earned, as defined under s. 20.001 (4); and except that moneys 
received under s. 51.06 (6) may be expended only as provided in s. 13.101 (17).  All 
moneys transferred under 2025 Wisconsin Act .... (this act), section 9219 (2), shall 
be credited to this appropriation account.
SECTION  276.  20.435 (2) (gL) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  277.  20.435 (2) (km) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.435 (2) (km)  Indian mental health placement.   All moneys transferred from 
the appropriation account under s. 20.505 (8) (hm) 25. The amounts in the schedule 
to reimburse an Indian tribe or band in this state or a county department for 
placements by a tribal court of a member of the Indian tribe or band that are 
unexpected or that result in cumulative costs of placements to the tribe or county 
department exceeding $50,000 annually.  All moneys transferred from the 
appropriation account under s. 20.505 (8) (hm) 25. shall be credited to this 
appropriation account. Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (a), the unencumbered 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 533 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  277
balance on June 30 of each year shall revert to the appropriation account under s. 
20.505 (8) (hm).
SECTION  278.  20.435 (4) (bm) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.435 (4) (bm)  Medical Assistance, food stamps, and Badger Care 
administration; contract costs, insurer reports, and resource centers.   Biennially, the 
amounts in the schedule to provide a portion of the state share of administrative 
contract costs for the Medical Assistance program under subch. IV of ch. 49 and the 
Badger Care health care program under s. 49.665 and to provide the state share of 
administrative costs for the food stamp program under s. 49.79, other than 
payments under s. 49.78 (8), to develop and implement a registry of recipient 
immunizations, to reimburse 3rd parties for their costs under s. 49.475, for costs 
associated with outreach activities, for state administration of state supplemental 
grants to supplemental security income recipients under s. 49.77, for grants under 
ss. 46.73 and 46.74, and for services of resource centers under s. 46.283.  No state 
positions may be funded in the department of health services from this 
appropriation, except positions for the performance of duties under a contract in 
effect before January 1, 1987, related to the administration of the Medical 
Assistance program between the subunit of the department primarily responsible 
for administering the Medical Assistance program and another subunit of the 
department.  Total administrative funding authorized for the program under s. 
49.665 may not exceed 10 percent of the amounts budgeted under pars. (p) and (x).
SECTION  279.  20.435 (4) (bq) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  280.  20.435 (4) (bu) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 534 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  280
20.435 (4) (bu)  Payment processing program for farmers.   Biennially, the 
amounts in the schedule to provide electronic benefit transfer and credit and debit 
card processing equipment and services to farmers [ markets and farmers who sell 
directly to consumers under s. 49.79 (7s).
SECTION  281.  20.435 (4) (jw) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.435 (4) (jw)  BadgerCare Plus and hospital assessment.   All moneys 
received from payment of enrollment fees under the program under s. 49.45 (23), all 
moneys transferred under s. 50.38 (9), all moneys transferred under s. 256.23 (6), 
all moneys transferred from the appropriation account under par. (jz), and 10 
percent of all moneys received from penalty assessments under s. 49.471 (9) (c), for 
administration of the program under s. 49.45 (23), to provide a portion of the state 
share of administrative costs for the BadgerCare Plus Medical Assistance program 
under s. 49.471, for administration of the hospital assessment under s. 50.38, and 
for administration of the ambulance service provider fee under s. 256.23.
SECTION  282.  20.435 (4) (pa) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.435 (4) (pa)  Federal aid; Medical Assistance and food stamp contracts 
administration.   All federal moneys received for the federal share of the cost of 
contracting for payment and services administration and reporting, other than 
moneys received under pars. (nn) and (np), to reimburse 3rd parties for their costs 
under s. 49.475, for administrative contract costs for the food stamp program under 
s. 49.79, for grants under ss. 46.73 and 46.74, and for services of resource centers 
under s. 46.283.
SECTION  283.  20.435 (5) (bw) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.435 (5) (bw)  Child psychiatry and addiction medicine consultation  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 535 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  283
programs Mental health consultation program.   Biennially, the amounts in the 
schedule for operating the child psychiatry consultation program under s. 51.442 
and the addiction medicine consultation program under s. 51.448 mental health 
consultation program under s. 51.443.
SECTION  284.  20.435 (5) (bx) of the statutes is created to read:
20.435 (5) (bx)  Addiction medicine consultation program.   Biennially, the 
amounts in the schedule for operating the addiction medicine consultation program 
under s. 51.448.
SECTION  285.  20.435 (5) (ch) of the statutes is created to read:
20.435 (5) (ch)  Suicide and crisis lifeline grants.   The amounts in the schedule 
for grants under s. 46.533.
SECTION  286.  20.435 (5) (ck) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.435 (5) (ck)  Crisis urgent care and observation facilities.   Biennially As a 
continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for grants to support crisis 
urgent care and observation facilities.
SECTION  287.  20.435 (5) (ct) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  288.  20.435 (5) (dg) of the statutes is created to read:
20.435 (5) (dg)  Grants for crisis stabilization facilities.   The amounts in the 
schedule for grants to facilities that provide crisis stabilization services under s. 
51.03 (7).
SECTION  289.  20.437 (1) (bc) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.437 (1) (bc)  Grants for children [s community Youth support programs.   The 
amounts in the schedule for grants for children [s community youth support 
programs under s. 48.481.  Notwithstanding ss. 20.001 (3) (a) and 20.002 (1), the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 536 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  289
department may transfer funds between fiscal years under this paragraph.  All 
moneys under this appropriation account that are distributed under s. 48.481 but 
are not encumbered by December 31 of each year lapse to the general fund on the 
next January 1 unless carried forward to the next calendar year by the joint 
committee on finance.
SECTION  290.  20.437 (1) (bd) of the statutes is created to read:
20.437 (1) (bd)  Tribal family services grants.   The amounts in the schedule for 
tribal family services grants under s. 48.487.
SECTION  291.  20.437 (1) (bn) of the statutes is created to read:
20.437 (1) (bn)  Tribal placements.  The amounts in the schedule to be used for 
unexpected or unusually high-cost out-of-home care placements of Indian children 
by tribal courts, including placements of Indian juveniles who have been 
adjudicated delinquent.
SECTION  292.  20.437 (1) (cj) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.437 (1) (cj)  Community youth and family aids.   The amounts in the 
schedule for the improvement and provision of community-based juvenile 
delinquency-related services under s. 48.526 and juvenile correctional services 
under s. 301.26 and for reimbursement to counties having a population of less than 
750,000 for the cost of court attached intake services as provided in s. 938.06 (4).  
Disbursements may be made from this appropriation account under s. 49.32 (2).  
Refunds received relating to payments made under s. 49.32 (2) shall be returned to 
this appropriation account.  Notwithstanding ss. 20.001 (3) (a) and 20.002 (1), the 
department of children and families may transfer moneys under this paragraph 
between fiscal years.  Except for moneys authorized to be carried forward under s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 537 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  292
48.526 (3) (dm) or for transfer under s. 48.526 (3) (e), all moneys from this 
paragraph allocated under s. 48.526 (3) and not spent or encumbered by counties by 
December 31 of each year shall lapse into the general fund on the succeeding 
January 1.  The joint committee on finance may transfer additional moneys to the 
next calendar year.
SECTION  293.  20.437 (1) (cL) of the statutes is created to read:
20.437 (1) (cL)  Seventeen-year-old juvenile justice aids.   A sum sufficient for 
the purposes under s. 48.5275.
SECTION  294.  20.437 (1) (cm) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.437 (1) (cm)  Community intervention program Youth justice system 
improvement program.  The amounts in the schedule for the community 
intervention program youth justice system improvement program under s. 48.528.
SECTION  295.  20.437 (1) (cx) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.437 (1) (cx)  Child welfare services; aids.   The amounts in the schedule for 
providing services to children and families under s. 48.48 (17) in a county having a 
population of 750,000 or more, for the cost of subsidized guardianship payments 
under s. 48.623 (1) (1r) or (6), and, to the extent that a demonstration project 
authorized under 42 USC 1320a-9 reduces the cost of providing out-of-home care for 
children in that county, for services for children and families under s. 48.563 (4) in 
counties having a population of less than 750,000.
SECTION  296.  20.437 (1) (dd) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.437 (1) (dd)  State out-of-home care, adoption services, and subsidized 
guardianships, and kinship care.   The amounts in the schedule for foster care, 
institutional child care, and subsidized adoptions under ss. 48.48 (12) and 48.52, for 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 538 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  296
the cost of care for children under s. 49.19 (10) (d), for the cost of placements of 
children 18 years of age or over in residential care centers for children and youth 
under voluntary agreements under s. 48.366 (3) or under orders that terminate as 
provided in s. 48.355 (4) (b) 4., 48.357 (6) (a) 4., or 48.365 (5) (b) 4., for the cost of the 
foster care monitoring system, for the cost of reimbursing counties county 
departments under s. 46.215, 46.22, or 46.23 for subsidized guardianship payments 
under s. 48.623 (3) (a), for the cost of specialized services to children with high 
acuity needs in congregate care facilities under s. 48.48 (8x), for the cost of services 
to children with special needs who are under the guardianship of the department to 
prepare those children for adoption, and for the cost of postadoption services to 
children with special needs, for kinship care payments under s. 48.57 (3m) made on 
behalf of a juvenile who meets the criteria specified in s. 938.12 or is at risk of 
meeting that criteria, for assessments to determine eligibility for those payments, 
and for kinship care payments made on behalf of a juvenile who meets the criteria 
specified in s. 938.12 or is at risk of meeting that criteria under an agreement with 
a governing body of an Indian tribe under s. 48.57 (3t) for the administration of the 
kinship care programs within the boundaries of that tribe.
SECTION  297.  20.437 (1) (kp) of the statutes is created to read:
20.437 (1) (kp)  Youth aids funding for the youth justice system improvement 
program.   All moneys transferred from the appropriation account under par. (cj), as 
provided under s. 48.526 (3) (e), for the youth justice system improvement program 
under s. 48.528.
SECTION  298.  20.437 (1) (mx) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.437 (1) (mx)  Federal aid; Milwaukee child welfare services aids.   All federal 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 539 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  298
moneys received for providing services to children and families under s. 48.48 (17), 
to carry out the purposes for which received and for the cost of subsidized 
guardianship payments under s. 48.623 (1) (1r) or (6).
SECTION  299.  20.437 (1) (pd) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.437 (1) (pd)  Federal aid; state out-of-home care, adoption services, and 
subsidized guardianships.   All federal moneys received for meeting the costs of 
providing foster care, institutional child care, and subsidized adoptions under ss. 
48.48 (12) and 48.52, the cost of care for children under s. 49.19 (10) (d), the cost of 
placements of children 18 years of age or over in residential care centers for children 
and youth under voluntary agreements under s. 48.366 (3) or under orders that 
terminate as provided in s. 48.355 (4) (b) 4., 48.357 (6) (a) 4., or 48.365 (5) (b) 4., the 
cost of reimbursing counties county departments under s. 46.215, 46.22, or 46.23 
and Indian tribes for subsidized guardianship payments under s. 48.623 (3) (a), the 
cost of specialized services to children with high acuity needs in congregate care 
facilities under s. 48.48 (8x), the cost of services to children with special needs who 
are under the guardianship of the department to prepare those children for 
adoption, and the cost of postadoption services to children with special needs, and 
for kinship care payments under s. 48.57 (3m) made on behalf of a juvenile who 
meets the criteria specified in s. 938.12 or is at risk of meeting that criteria, for 
assessments to determine eligibility for those payments, and for kinship care 
payments made on behalf of a juvenile who meets the criteria specified in s. 938.12 
or is at risk of meeting that criteria under an agreement with a governing body of 
an Indian tribe under s. 48.57 (3t) for the administration of the kinship care 
programs within the boundaries of that tribe.  Disbursements for foster care under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 540 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  299
s. 49.32 (2) and for the purposes described under s. 48.627 may be made from this 
appropriation.
SECTION  300.  20.437 (2) (bp) of the statutes is created to read:
20.437 (2) (bp)  Child care access program.   The amounts in the schedule for 
the program under s. 49.1335.
SECTION  301.  20.437 (2) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
20.437 (2) (c)  Child care quality improvement program.   The amounts in the 
schedule for the program under s. 49.133.
SECTION  302.  20.437 (2) (d) of the statutes is created to read:
20.437 (2) (d)  Child care partnership grant program.   The amounts in the 
schedule for the grants under s. 49.132.
SECTION  303.  20.437 (2) (ej) of the statutes is created to read:
20.437 (2) (ej)  Child care water safety grant program.   As a continuing 
appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for the grants under s. 49.1337.
SECTION  304.  20.437 (2) (fg) of the statutes is created to read:
20.437 (2) (fg)  Grants for out-of-school time programs.   The amounts in the 
schedule for grants to out-of-school time programs under s. 48.483.
SECTION  305.  20.437 (2) (fn) of the statutes is created to read:
20.437 (2) (fn)  Expanded Transform Milwaukee Jobs program and 
Transitional Jobs program.   The amounts in the schedule for the program under s. 
49.1632.
SECTION  306.  20.437 (2) (r) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.437 (2) (r)  Support receipt and disbursement program; payments.   From 
the support collections trust fund, except as provided in par. (qm), all moneys 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 541 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  306
received under s. 49.854, except for moneys received under s. 49.854 (11) (b), all 
moneys received under ss. 767.57 and 767.75 for child or family support, 
maintenance, spousal support, health care expenses, or birth expenses, all other 
moneys received under judgments or orders in actions affecting the family, as 
defined in s. 767.001 (1), and all moneys received under s. 49.855 (4) from the 
department of revenue or the department of administration that were withheld by 
the department of revenue or the internal revenue service for delinquent child 
support, family support, or maintenance or outstanding court-ordered amounts for 
past support, medical expenses, or birth expenses, for disbursement to the persons 
for whom the payments are awarded, and, if assigned under s. 48.57 (3m) (b) 2. or 
(3n) (b) 2., 48.645 (3), 49.145 (2) (s), 49.19 (4) (h) 1. b., or 49.775 (2) (bm), for transfer 
to the appropriation account under par. (k).  Estimated disbursements under this 
paragraph shall not be included in the schedule under s. 20.005.
SECTION  307.  20.445 (1) (aL) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  308.  20.445 (1) (am) of the statutes is created to read:
20.445 (1) (am)  Unemployment insurance; general administration.   As a 
continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for administration of ch. 
108.
SECTION  309.  20.445 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.445 (1) (b)  Workforce training; programs, grants, services, and contracts.   
The As a continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for the workforce 
training programs, grants, and services under s. 106.27 (1), (1g), (1j), (1r), and (1u) 
and for the costs associated with contracts entered into under s. 47.07.
SECTION  310.  20.445 (1) (bw) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 542 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  310
20.445 (1) (bw)  Workforce innovation grants.   As a continuing appropriation, 
the amounts in the schedule for workforce innovation grants under s. 106.29.
SECTION  311.  20.445 (1) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
20.445 (1) (cm)  Wisconsin worker advancement  program.  As a continuing 
appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for the Wisconsin worker advancement 
program under s. 106.145.
SECTION  312.  20.445 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.445 (1) (e)  Local youth apprenticeship grants.   As a continuing 
appropriation, the amounts in the schedule A sum sufficient for local youth 
apprenticeship grants under s. 106.13 (3m).
SECTION  313.  20.445 (1) (em) of the statutes is created to read:
20.445 (1) (em)  Youth-to-registered apprenticeship grant program .  As a 
continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for youth-to-registered 
apprenticeship grants under s. 106.135.
SECTION  314.  20.445 (1) (er) of the statutes is created to read:
20.445 (1) (er)  On-the-job learning grant program .  As a continuing 
appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for on-the-job learning grants under s. 
106.136.
SECTION  315.  20.445 (1) (ga) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.445 (1) (ga)  Auxiliary services.   All moneys received from fees collected 
under ss. 102.16 (2m) (d), 103.005 (15), 103.91 (3), 103.92 (1) (a), and 106.09 (7) for 
the delivery of services under ss. 102.16 (2m) (f), 103.005 (15), and 106.09 and ch. 
108, and for administrative services under ss. 103.905 to 103.97.
SECTION  316.  20.445 (1) (ra) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 543 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  316
20.445 (1) (ra)  Worker[s compensation operations fund; administration.   From 
the worker [s compensation operations fund, the amounts in the schedule a sum 
sufficient for the administration of the worker [s compensation program by the 
department, for assistance to the department of justice in investigating and 
prosecuting fraudulent activity related to worker [s compensation, and for transfer 
to the uninsured employers fund under s. 102.81 (1) (c), and for transfer to the 
appropriation accounts under par. (rp) and s. 20.427 (1) (ra).  All moneys received 
under ss. 102.28 (2) (b) and 102.75 (1) shall be credited to this appropriation 
account.  From this appropriation, an amount not to exceed $5,000 may be 
expended each fiscal year for payment of expenses for travel and research by the 
council on worker [s compensation, and an amount not to exceed $500,000 may be 
transferred in each fiscal year to the uninsured employers fund under s. 102.81 (1) 
(c), the amount in the schedule under par. (rp) shall be transferred to the 
appropriation account under par. (rp), and the amount in the schedule under s. 
20.427 (1) (ra) shall be transferred to the appropriation account under s. 20.427 (1) 
(ra).
SECTION  317.  20.445 (1) (rp) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  318.  20.445 (1) (rr) of the statutes is created to read:
20.445 (1) (rr)  Worker[s compensation operations fund; special assessment 
insurer reimbursements.   From the worker [s compensation operations fund, the 
amounts in the schedule for providing reimbursement to insurance carriers paying 
supplemental benefits under s. 102.44 (1) (c).  All moneys received under s. 102.75 
(1g) shall be credited to this appropriation account.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 544 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  319
SECTION  319.  20.455 (1) (hm) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.455 (1) (hm)  Restitution.   All moneys received by the department to provide 
restitution to victims when ordered by the court as the result of prosecutions under 
s. 49.49 and chs. 100, 133, 281 to 285 and 289 to 299 and, under a federal antitrust 
law for the purpose of providing restitution to victims of the violation when ordered 
by the court, or under any other court order or settlement agreement for the 
purpose of providing restitution to victims.
SECTION  320.  20.455 (1) (hn) of the statutes is created to read:
20.455 (1) (hn)  Payments to relators.   All moneys received by the department 
that are owed to a relator, to provide payments owed to a relator.
SECTION  321.  20.455 (2) (eg) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  322.  20.455 (2) (em) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  323.  20.455 (2) (gb) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.455 (2) (gb)  Gifts and grants.   The amounts in the schedule to carry out the 
purposes for which gifts and grants are made and received.  All moneys received 
from gifts and grants, other than moneys received for and credited to another 
appropriation account under this subsection, shall be credited to this appropriation 
account to carry out the purposes for which made and received.
SECTION  324.  20.455 (2) (gr) of the statutes, as affected by 2023 Wisconsin 
Act 240, is repealed and recreated to read:
20.455 (2) (gr)  Handgun purchaser record check; checks for licenses or 
certifications to carry concealed weapons.   All moneys received as fee payments 
under ss. 175.35 (2i), 175.49 (5m), and 175.60 (7) (c) and (d), (13), and (15) (b) 4. a. 
and b. to provide services under ss. 165.28, 175.35, 175.49, and 175.60.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 545 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  325
SECTION  325.  20.455 (2) (gr) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), is amended to read:
20.455 (2) (gr)  Handgun Firearm purchaser record check; checks for licenses or 
certifications to carry concealed weapons.   All moneys received as fee payments 
under ss. 175.35 (2i) (a), 175.49 (5m), and 175.60 (7) (c) and (d), (13), and (15) (b) 4. 
a. and b. to provide services under ss. 165.28, 175.35, 175.49, and 175.60.
SECTION  326.  20.455 (2) (jd) of the statutes is renumbered 20.625 (1) (jd) and 
amended to read:
20.625 (1) (jd)  Alternatives to prosecution and incarceration grant program.   
The amounts in the schedule to provide grants under s. 165.95 (2) payments to 
counties that are not a recipient of a grant under the for the county to establish and 
operate alternatives to prosecution and incarceration grant program on September 
23, 2017 that comply with the criteria specified in s. 165.95 (3).  All moneys 
transferred under 2017 Wisconsin Act 59, section 9228 (15t), and 2023 Wisconsin 
Act 19, section 9227 (1), shall be credited to this appropriation account.
SECTION  327.  20.455 (2) (kn) of the statutes is renumbered 20.625 (1) (kn) 
and amended to read:
20.625 (1) (kn)  Alternatives to prosecution and incarceration for persons who 
use alcohol or other drugs; justice information fee.   The amounts in the schedule for 
administering and making grants payments to counties and tribes under that 
comply with the criteria specified in s. 165.95 (2) (3).  All moneys transferred from 
the appropriation account under s. 20.505 (1) (id) 5. shall be credited to this 
appropriation account.  Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (a), the unencumbered 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 546 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  327
balance on June 30 of each year shall be transferred to the appropriation account 
under s. 20.505 (1) (id).
SECTION  328.  20.455 (2) (kv) of the statutes is renumbered 20.625 (1) (kv) and 
amended to read:
20.625 (1) (kv)  Grants for substance abuse treatment programs Programs for 
criminal offenders.   All moneys received under s. 961.41 (5) (c) 2. or 973.043 for the 
purpose of making grants payments to counties and tribes under that comply with 
the criteria specified in s. 165.95 (2) (3).
SECTION  329.  20.455 (3) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.455 (3) (g)  Gifts, grants and proceeds.   The amounts in the schedule to 
carry out the purposes for which gifts and grants are made and collected.  All 
moneys received from gifts and grants and all proceeds from services, conferences, 
and sales of publications and promotional materials to carry out the purposes for 
which made or collected, except as provided in sub. (2) (gm) and (gp) and to transfer 
to s. 20.505 (1) (kg), at the discretion of the attorney general, an amount not to 
exceed $98,300 annually, shall be credited to this appropriation account.
SECTION  330.  20.455 (5) (gL) of the statutes is created to read:
20.455 (5) (gL)  Grants for crime victim services.   All moneys received from the 
crime victim services surcharge imposed under s. 973.0452 for the purpose of 
awarding grants under s. 165.935.
SECTION  331.  20.455 (5) (km) of the statutes is created to read:
20.455 (5) (km)  Grants for crime victim services supplement  state funds.   All 
moneys transferred from the appropriation account under s. 20.505 (1) (e) for the 
purposes of awarding grants under s. 165.935.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 547 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  332
SECTION  332.  20.465 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.465 (2) (a)  Tuition Educational grants.   A sum sufficient for the payment of 
tuition educational grants to members of the Wisconsin national guard under s. 
321.40 (3).
SECTION  333.  20.465 (3) (qs) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.465 (3) (qs)  Grant program for incumbent local exchange carriers.   
Biennially, from the 911 fund, the amounts in the schedule for the department to 
provide grants under s. 256.35 (3s) (bx).  No moneys may be encumbered under this 
paragraph after June 30, 2027.
SECTION  334.  20.485 (1) (gk) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.485 (1) (gk)  Institutional operations.   The amounts in the schedule for the 
care of the members of the Wisconsin veterans homes under s. 45.50, for the 
payment of stipends under s. 45.50 (2m) (f), for the transfer of moneys to the 
appropriation account under s. 20.435 (4) (ky) for payment of the state share of the 
medical assistance costs related to the provision of stipends under s. 45.50 (2m) (f), 
for the payment of assistance to indigent veterans under s. 45.43 to allow them to 
reside at the Wisconsin Veterans Home at Union Grove, for the transfer of moneys 
to the appropriation accounts under pars. (kc) and (kj), for the transfer of moneys in 
an amount up to $10,000,000 to the appropriation account under par. (ks), and for 
the payment of grants under s. 45.82.  Not more than 1 percent of the moneys 
credited to this appropriation account may be used for the payment of assistance to 
indigent veterans under s. 45.43.  All moneys received under par. (m) and s. 45.51 
(7) (b) and (8) and all moneys received for the care of members under medical 
assistance, as defined in s. 49.43 (8), shall be credited to this appropriation account.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 548 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  334
All moneys transferred under 2025 Wisconsin Act .... (this act), section 9248 (1), 
shall be credited to this appropriation account.  Except for the moneys transferred 
under this paragraph to the appropriation account under par. (kc), no moneys may 
be expended from this appropriation for the purposes specified in par. (kc).
SECTION  335.  20.485 (2) (qw) of the statutes is created to read:
20.485 (2) (qw)  Veterans mental health services.   Biennially, from the veterans 
trust fund, the amounts in the schedule for the promotion and assistance of access 
to, and grants for, veterans [ mental health services under s. 45.49.
SECTION  336.  20.485 (2) (vm) (title) of the statutes is repealed and recreated 
to read:
20.485 (2) (vm) (title)  Veterans assistance grants.
SECTION  337.  20.505 (1) (aw) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (aw)  Grants for local projects.   As a continuing appropriation, the 
amounts in the schedule for grants awarded under s. 16.095 to assist nonstate 
organizations to carry out construction projects having a statewide public purpose.
SECTION  338.  20.505 (1) (bp) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (bp)  Office of violence prevention; general program operations.   The 
amounts in the schedule for the general program operations of the office of violence 
prevention.
SECTION  339.  20.505 (1) (bs) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (bs)  Office of violence prevention; violence reduction initiative 
grants.   The amounts in the schedule for violence reduction initiative grants 
awarded under s. 16.02 (3).
SECTION  340.  20.505 (1) (bv) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 549 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  340
20.505 (1) (bv)  Cybersecurity emergency incident response.   A sum sufficient, 
not to exceed the amounts allocated under s. 16.971 (18) (b), for cybersecurity 
emergency incident response under s. 16.971 (18) (a).
SECTION  341.  20.505 (1) (cb) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (cb)  Grants to tribes for alternatives to prosecution and 
incarceration programs.   The amounts in the schedule for grants to federally 
recognized American Indian tribes or bands in this state under s. 16.075 (2).
SECTION  342.  20.505 (1) (cp) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (cp)  Translation services.   The amounts in the schedule for 
assistance under s. 16.17.
SECTION  343.  20.505 (1) (cv) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (cv)  First class city school district audit response support.   
Biennially, the amounts in the schedule for payments under s. 16.23 to a 1st class 
city school district to implement audit recommendations.
SECTION  344.  20.505 (1) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (e)  Supplement to crime victim services grant program.   A sum 
sufficient not to exceed in each fiscal year the amount determined under s. 16.311 
(1) to supplement the crime victim services grant program under s. 165.935 as 
provided in s. 16.311.
SECTION  345.  20.505 (1) (em) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (em)  Cybersecurity activities.   The amounts in the schedule for the 
department of administration [s cybersecurity activities.
SECTION  346.  20.505 (1) (ep) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (ep)  Civil legal services.   As a continuing appropriation, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 550 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  346
amounts in the schedule to provide grants under s. 16.19 to the Wisconsin Trust 
Account Foundation, Inc., for the provision of civil legal services.
SECTION  347.  20.505 (1) (fn) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (fn)  Artificial intelligence tools and infrastructure.   The amounts in 
the schedule to support the development and maintenance of artificial intelligence 
tools and infrastructure for the benefit of state agencies under s. 16.971 (2) (p).
SECTION  348.  20.505 (1) (id) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (1) (id) 5.  The amount transferred to s. 20.455 (2) 20.625 (1) (kn) shall 
be the amount in the schedule under s. 20.455 (2) 20.625 (1) (kn).
SECTION  349.  20.505 (1) (kL) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (1) (kL)  Printing, mail, communication, document sales, and 
information technology services; state agencies; veterans services.   The amounts in 
the schedule to provide document sales, printing, mail processing, electronic 
communications, information technology development, management, and 
processing services, but not enterprise resource planning system services under s. 
16.971 (2) (cf), to state agencies and veterans services under s. 16.973 (9).  All 
moneys received for the provision of document sales services and services under ss. 
16.971, 16.972, 16.973, 16.974 (3), and 16.997 (2) (d), other than moneys received 
and disbursed under par. (ip) and s. 20.225 (1) (kb), shall be credited to this 
appropriation account.
SECTION  350.  20.505 (1) (ks) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (1) (ks)  Collective bargaining grievance arbitrations.   The amounts in 
the schedule for the payment of the state [s share of costs related to collective 
bargaining grievance arbitrations under s. 111.86.  All moneys received from state 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 551 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  350
agencies or authorities for the purpose of reimbursing the state [s share of the costs 
related to grievance arbitrations under s. 111.86 and to reimburse the state [s share 
of costs for training related to grievance arbitrations shall be credited to this 
appropriation account.
SECTION  351.  20.505 (1) (kx) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (1) (kx) (title)  American Indian economic development; technical 
assistance and tourism promotion.
SECTION  352.  20.505 (1) (ky) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (1) (ky)  Tribal grants.   The amounts in the schedule for grants to 
federally recognized American Indian tribes or bands in this state under 2023 
Wisconsin Act 19, section 9101 (2), and under ss. 16.07 and 16.08.  All moneys 
transferred from the appropriation account under sub. (8) (hm) 16a. shall be 
credited to this appropriation account.  Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (a), the 
unencumbered balance on June 30 of each year shall revert to the appropriation 
account under sub. (8) (hm).
SECTION  353.  20.505 (1) (r) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (1) (r)  Local construction project grants.   From the local government 
fund, as a continuing appropriation, the amounts in the schedule for grants 
awarded under s. 16.095 (6) to assist cities, villages, towns, counties, and tribal 
governments to carry out construction projects having a statewide public purpose.
SECTION  354.  20.505 (1) (uc) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (1) (uc)  Land information program; local aids.   From the land 
information fund, all moneys received by the department under s. 59.72 (5) (a), 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 552 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  354
except moneys appropriated and expended by June 30 under par. (ub), for aids to 
counties under s. 16.967 (7).
SECTION  355.  20.505 (4) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (4) (c)  Telecommunications access for educational agencies; general 
fund.   Biennially, the amounts in the schedule to make payments to 
telecommunications providers under contracts under s. 16.971 (13), (14), and (15) to 
the extent that the amounts due are not paid from the appropriation under sub. (1) 
(is), and to make payments to telecommunications providers under contracts under 
s. 16.971 (16) to the extent that the amounts due are not paid from the 
appropriation under sub. (1) (kL).
SECTION  356.  20.505 (4) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (4) (cm)  Community climate action grants.   Biennially, the amounts in 
the schedule for grants under s. 16.035 (2).
SECTION  357.  20.505 (4) (cp) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (4) (cp)  Community climate engagement grant program.   Biennially, 
the amounts in the schedule for the community climate engagement grant program 
under s. 16.037.
SECTION  358.  20.505 (4) (fm) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (4) (fm)  National and community service board; state scholarship 
program.   Biennially, the amounts in the schedule for the state scholarship program 
under s. 16.22 (2m).
SECTION  359.  20.505 (4) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (4) (h)  Program services.   The amounts in the schedule to carry out the 
responsibilities of divisions, commissions, and boards attached to the department of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 553 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  359
administration, other than the board on aging and long-term care, the board for 
people with developmental disabilities, the distance learning authorization board, 
and the public records board, and to carry out the responsibilities of special and 
executive committees.  All moneys received from fees which are authorized by law or 
administrative rule to be collected by any division, board or commission attached to 
the department, other than the board on aging and long-term care, the board for 
people with developmental disabilities, the distance learning authorization board, 
and the public records board, and all moneys received from fees that are authorized 
by law or executive order to be collected by any special or executive committee shall 
be credited to this appropriation account and used to carry out the purposes for 
which collected.
SECTION  360.  20.505 (4) (o) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (4) (o)  National and community service board; federal aid for 
administration.   From the All moneys received from the corporation for national 
and community service under 42 USC 12542 (a) and 12571 (a), as a continuing 
appropriation, the amounts in the schedule that are designated for administering 
the national and community service program, for the administration of the national 
and community service program under s. 16.22.
SECTION  361.  20.505 (4) (p) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (4) (p)  National and community service board; federal aid for grants.   
From the All moneys received from the corporation for national and community 
service under 42 USC 12542 (a) and 12571 (a), all moneys not appropriated under 
par. (o) that are designated for the purpose of national service program grants, for 
national service program grants under s. 16.22 (2) (h).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 554 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  362
SECTION  362.  20.505 (5) (ka) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (5) (ka)  Facility operations and maintenance; police and protection 
functions.   The amounts in the schedule for the purpose of financing the costs of 
operation of state-owned or operated facilities that are not funded from other 
appropriations, including custodial and maintenance services; for minor projects; 
for utilities, fuel, heat, and air conditioning; for assessments levied by the 
department under s. 16.847 (3) for costs incurred and savings generated at 
departmental facilities; for facility design services provided to agencies under s. 
16.849; and for costs incurred under ss. 16.858 and 16.895 by or on behalf of the 
department; and for police and protection functions under s. 16.84 (2) and (3), 
including to provide security services at multitenant state buildings or multitenant 
state facilities.  All moneys received from state agencies for the operation of such 
facilities, from parking rental fees established under s. 16.843 (2) (bm) and 
miscellaneous other sources, from assessments under s. 16.895, from the 
performance of gaming protection functions under s. 16.84 (3), from charges to state 
agencies for security services under s. 16.84 (2), and from the fees assessed under s. 
16.849, and all moneys transferred from the appropriation account under s. 20.865 
(2) (e) for this purpose shall be credited to this appropriation account.  No moneys 
may be expended from this appropriation for the purposes specified in par. (kg).
SECTION  363.  20.505 (5) (ks) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  364.  20.505 (7) (bp) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (7) (bp)  Housing quality standards grants.   The amounts in the 
schedule for housing quality standards grants under s. 16.3077.
SECTION  365.  20.505 (7) (fe) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 555 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  365
20.505 (7) (fe)  Grants for Milwaukee County Housing First.   The amounts in 
the schedule for payments under 2025 Wisconsin Act .... (this act), section 9101 (1).
SECTION  366.  20.505 (7) (fe) of the statutes, as created by 2025 Wisconsin Act 
.... (this act), is repealed.
SECTION  367.  20.505 (7) (fo) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (7) (fo)  Affordable housing and workforce development grants.   
Biennially, the amounts in the schedule for grants under s. 16.3063.
SECTION  368.  20.505 (7) (fq) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (7) (fq)  Grants to incentivize eliminating zoning barriers to affordable 
housing.   Biennially, the amounts in the schedule for grants under s. 16.3066.
SECTION  369.  20.505 (7) (fr) of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (7) (fr)  Whole-home upgrade grants.   As a continuing appropriation, 
the amounts in the schedule for grants under s. 16.3069.
SECTION  370.  20.505 (8) (hm) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (8) (hm)  Indian gaming receipts.   (intro.)  All moneys required to be 
credited to this appropriation under s. 569.06, all moneys transferred under 2001 
Wisconsin Act 16, sections 9201 (5mk), 9205 (1mk), 9210 (3mk), 9223 (5mk), 9224 
(1mk), 9225 (1mk), 9231 (1mk), 9237 (4mk), 9240 (1mk), 9251 (1mk), 9256 (1mk), 
9257 (2mk), and 9258 (2mk), and all moneys that revert to this appropriation 
account from the appropriation accounts specified in subds. 1c. to 19., 22., and 23. 
26., less the amounts appropriated under par. (h) and s. 20.455 (2) (gc), for the 
purpose of annually transferring the following amounts:
SECTION  371.  20.505 (8) (hm) 6. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  372.  20.505 (8) (hm) 8k. of the statutes is repealed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 556 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  373
SECTION  373.  20.505 (8) (hm) 8m. of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (8) (hm) 8m.  The amount transferred to s. 20.370 (5) (hk) shall be the 
amount in the schedule under s. 20.370 (5) (hk).
SECTION  374.  20.505 (8) (hm) 16. of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (8) (hm) 16.  The amount transferred to s. 20.566 (3) (km) shall be the 
amount in the schedule under s. 20.566 (3) (km).
SECTION  375.  20.505 (8) (hm) 25. of the statutes is amended to read:
20.505 (8) (hm) 25.  The amount transferred to s. 20.435 (2) (km) shall be 
$250,000 or the amount remaining in this appropriation after all other transfers 
under subds. 1c. to 24. are made, whichever is less the amount in the schedule 
under s. 20.435 (2) (km).
SECTION  376.  20.505 (8) (hm) 26. of the statutes is created to read:
20.505 (8) (hm) 26.  The amount transferred to s. 20.255 (2) (kg) shall be the 
amount in the schedule under s. 20.255 (2) (kg).
SECTION  377.  20.507 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.507 (1) (c)  Payments in lieu of taxes.   The amounts in the schedule A sum 
sufficient for payments in lieu of property taxes under s. 24.62 (3).
SECTION  378.  20.510 (1) (bp) of the statutes is created to read:
20.510 (1) (bp)  Election administration; local aids.   Biennially, the amounts in 
the schedule for election administration grants under s. 5.45 and 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), section 9112 (1).
SECTION  379.  20.510 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.510 (1) (c)  Voter identification County and municipal clerk training.   The 
amounts in the schedule for training of county and municipal clerks concerning the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 557 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  379
administration of elections as provided in chs. 5 to 10 and 12, including voter 
identification requirements provided in 2011 Wisconsin Act 23.
SECTION  380.  20.510 (1) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
20.510 (1) (f)  Local aids for special elections.   A sum sufficient to reimburse 
counties and municipalities for certain special primary or election costs under s. 
5.05 (11m).
SECTION  381.  20.510 (1) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.510 (1) (g)  Recount fees.   The amounts in the schedule All moneys received 
on account of recount petitions filed with the commission, to be apportioned to the 
commission and the county clerks or county board of election commissioners as 
prescribed in s. 9.01 (1) (ag).  All moneys received on account of recount petitions 
filed with the commission shall be credited to this appropriation account.
SECTION  382.  20.521 (1) (im) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  383.  20.566 (1) (bn) of the statutes is created to read:
20.566 (1) (bn)  Administration and enforcement of marijuana tax and 
regulation.   The amounts in the schedule for the purposes of administering the 
marijuana tax imposed under subch. IV of ch. 139 and for the costs incurred in 
enforcing the taxing and regulation of marijuana producers, marijuana processors, 
and marijuana retailers under subch. IV of ch. 139.
SECTION  384.  20.566 (1) (gc) of the statutes is created to read:
20.566 (1) (gc)  Administration of transit authority taxes .  From the moneys 
received from the appropriation account under s. 20.835 (4) (gc), the amounts in the 
schedule for the purpose of administering the transit authority taxes imposed 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 558 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  384
under s. 77.708.  Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (a), at the end of the fiscal year the 
unencumbered balance in this appropriation account shall be transferred to the 
appropriation account under s. 20.835 (4) (gc).
SECTION  385.  20.566 (1) (gh) of the statutes is created to read:
20.566 (1) (gh)  Administration of regional transit authority fees.   The amounts 
in the schedule for administering the fees imposed under subch. XIV of ch. 77.  An 
amount equal to 2.55 percent of all moneys received from the fees imposed under 
subch. XIV of ch. 77 shall be credited to this appropriation.  Notwithstanding s. 
20.001 (3) (a), at the end of each fiscal year the unencumbered balance in this 
appropriation account that exceeds 10 percent of the expenditures from this 
appropriation during the fiscal year shall be transferred to the appropriation 
account under s. 20.835 (4) (gh).
SECTION  386.  20.566 (1) (gi) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.566 (1) (gi) (title)  Administration of municipality taxes of 1st class cities.
SECTION  387.  20.566 (1) (gj) of the statutes is created to read:
20.566 (1) (gj)  Administration of municipality taxes; generally.   From the 
moneys transferred from the appropriation account under s. 20.835 (4) (gj), the 
amounts in the schedule for administering the municipality taxes imposed under s. 
77.702.  Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (a), at the end of the fiscal year the 
unencumbered balance of this appropriation account lapses to the general fund.
SECTION  388.  20.566 (1) (ha) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  389.  20.566 (1) (hd) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  390.  20.566 (3) (km) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 559 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  390
20.566 (3) (km)  Gaming regulation and enforcement.   The amounts in the 
schedule to support the department of revenue [s gaming regulation and 
enforcement activities.  All moneys transferred from the appropriation account 
under s. 20.505 (8) (hm) 16. shall be credited to this appropriation account.  
Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (a), the unencumbered balance on June 30 of each 
year shall revert to the appropriation account under s. 20.505 (8) (hm).
SECTION  391.  20.566 (9) of the statutes is created to read:
20.566 (9)  DIVISION  OF ALCOHOL  BEVERAGES .  (g)  General program operations.   
The amounts in the schedule for alcohol beverages regulation and enforcement 
under ch. 125 and general program operations of the division of alcohol beverages.  
All moneys received by the division of alcohol beverages, including all moneys 
transferred under 2025 Wisconsin Act .... (this act), section 9237 (1), shall be 
credited to this appropriation account.  All moneys received from the 
administration fee under s. 139.06 (1) (a) shall be credited to this appropriation 
account.  Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (a), at the end of each fiscal year, the 
unencumbered balance of this appropriation account shall lapse to the general 
fund.
SECTION  392.  20.575 (1) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.575 (1) (g)  Program fees General program operations.   The amounts in the 
schedule for the purpose of carrying out general program operations.  Except as 
provided under par. (ka), all amounts received by the secretary of state, including 
all All moneys transferred from the appropriation under s. 20.144 (1) (g), shall be 
credited to this appropriation account.  Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (a), any at the 
end of each fiscal year, the unencumbered balance at the close of a fiscal year 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 560 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  392
exceeding 10 percent of that fiscal year [s expenditures under of this appropriation 
account shall lapse to the general fund.
SECTION  393.  20.575 (1) (i) of the statutes is created to read:
20.575 (1) (i)  Gifts and grants.   All moneys received from gifts, grants, 
bequests, and devises to carry out the purposes for which made and received.
SECTION  394.  20.575 (1) (ka) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.575 (1) (ka)  Agency collections Program fees.   The amounts in the schedule 
for photocopying and microfilm copying of documents, generation of copies of 
documents from optical disc or electronic storage, publication of books, and other 
services provided in carrying out the functions of the office.  All moneys received by 
the office as fees or other charges for photocopying, microfilm copying, generation of 
copies of documents from optical disc or electronic storage, sales of books, provision 
of apostille and authentication services, and other services provided in carrying out 
the functions of the office shall be credited to this appropriation, for photocopying 
and microfilm copying of documents, generation of copies of documents from optical 
disc or electronic storage, publication of books, provision of apostille and 
authentication services, and other services provided in carrying out the functions of 
the office.
SECTION  395.  20.575 (1) (m) of the statutes is created to read:
20.575 (1) (m)  Federal aid.   All moneys received from the federal government 
as authorized by the governor under s. 16.54 to carry out the purposes for which 
received.
SECTION  396.  20.625 (1) (cg) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 561 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  396
20.625 (1) (cg)  Circuit court costs.   Biennially, the amounts in the schedule to 
make payments to counties for circuit court costs under s. 758.19 (5) (b).
SECTION  397.  20.625 (1) (d) of the statutes is created to read:
20.625 (1) (d)  Circuit court costs supplement.   Biennially, the amounts in the 
schedule to make payments to counties for circuit court costs under s. 758.19 (5) 
(bf), (bm), and (bn).
SECTION  398.  20.680 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
20.680 (4)  OFFICE  OF THE MARSHALS  OF THE SUPREME  COURT .  (a)  General 
program operations.   The amounts in the schedule for the general program 
operations of the office of the marshals of the supreme court.
SECTION  399.  20.835 (1) (a) of the statutes is created to read:
20.835 (1) (a)  Property tax freeze incentive payments.   A sum sufficient to 
make the payments under s. 79.06.
SECTION  400.  20.835 (1) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
20.835 (1) (b)  Refunds of certain tax payments made for nontaxable tribal 
land.   A sum sufficient to make the payments under 2025 Act .... (this act), section 
9137 (2).
SECTION  401.  20.835 (1) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
20.835 (1) (c)  County and municipal aid for nontaxable tribal land.   The 
amounts in the schedule to make the payments under s. 79.07.
SECTION  402.  20.835 (1) (d) of the statutes is created to read:
20.835 (1) (d)  State aid, state assessed pipelines.   A sum sufficient to make 
payments as provided under s. 79.098.
SECTION  403.  20.835 (2) (bm) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 562 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  403
20.835 (2) (bm)  Film production services credit .  A sum sufficient to make the 
payments under ss. 71.07 (5f) (d) 2., 71.28 (5f) (d) 2., and 71.47 (5f) (d) 2.
SECTION  404.  20.835 (2) (c) (title) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to 
read:
20.835 (2) (c) (title)  Property tax and rent rebate.
SECTION  405.  20.835 (2) (eq) of the statutes is created to read:
20.835 (2) (eq)  Marijuana tax refunds .  A sum sufficient to pay refunds under 
subch. IV of ch. 139.
SECTION  406.  20.835 (4) (gc) of the statutes is created to read:
20.835 (4) (gc)  Transit authority taxes .  All moneys received from the taxes 
imposed under s. 77.708, and from the appropriation account under s. 20.566 (1) 
(gc), for the purpose of distribution to the transit authorities that adopt a resolution 
imposing taxes under subch. V of ch. 77, except that 1.5 percent of those tax 
revenues collected under subch. V of ch. 77 shall be credited to the appropriation 
account under s. 20.566 (1) (gc).
SECTION  407.  20.835 (4) (gh) of the statutes is created to read:
20.835 (4) (gh)  Regional transit authority fees.   All moneys received from the 
fees imposed under subch. XIV of ch. 77, and from the appropriation account under 
s. 20.566 (1) (gh), for distribution to regional transit authorities created under s. 
66.1039 (2), except that 2.55 percent of the moneys received from the fees imposed 
under subch. XIV of ch. 77 shall be credited to the appropriation account under s. 
20.566 (1) (gh).
SECTION  408.  20.835 (4) (gi) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 563 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  408
20.835 (4) (gi) (title)  Municipality taxes of 1st class cities.
SECTION  409.  20.835 (4) (gj) of the statutes is created to read:
20.835 (4) (gj)  Municipality taxes; generally.   All moneys received from the 
taxes imposed under s. 77.702 for distribution to the municipalities that enact an 
ordinance imposing taxes under that section and for interest payments on refunds 
under s. 77.76 (3t), except that 0.75 percent of those tax revenues collected under 
that section shall be credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.566 (1) (gj).
SECTION  410.  20.865 (1) (fo) of the statutes is created to read:
20.865 (1) (fo)  Salary and fringe benefit costs incurred in enterprise 
assessments and billings; general purpose revenue.   The amounts in the schedule to 
supplement the appropriations to state agencies for enterprise assessments and 
billings that are increased because of compensation and related adjustments that 
are approved by the legislature under s. 111.92 for represented employees and by 
the joint committee on employment relations under s. 230.12.  In this paragraph, 
Xenterprise assessments and billings Y means charges from the department of 
administration for services provided directly to state agencies by employees of the 
department of administration.
SECTION  411.  20.865 (1) (gm) of the statutes is created to read:
20.865 (1) (gm)  Salary and fringe benefit costs incurred in enterprise 
assessments and billings; program revenue.   From the appropriate program revenue 
and program revenue  service accounts, a sum sufficient to supplement the 
appropriations to state agencies for enterprise assessments and billings that are 
increased because of compensation and related adjustments that are approved by 
the legislature under s. 111.92 for represented employees and by the joint 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 564 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  411
committee on employment relations under s. 230.12.  In this paragraph, Xenterprise 
assessments and billings Y means charges from the department of administration 
for services provided directly to state agencies by employees of the department of 
administration.
SECTION  412.  20.865 (1) (mz) of the statutes is created to read:
20.865 (1) (mz)  Salary and fringe benefit costs incurred in enterprise 
assessments and billings; federal funds.  From the appropriate federal program 
revenue accounts, a sum sufficient to supplement the appropriations to state 
agencies for enterprise assessments and billings that are increased because of 
compensation and related adjustments that are approved by the legislature under s. 
111.92 for represented employees and by the joint committee on employment 
relations under s. 230.12.  In this paragraph, Xenterprise assessments and billings Y 
means charges from the department of administration for services provided directly 
to state agencies by employees of the department of administration.
SECTION  413.  20.865 (1) (tz) of the statutes is created to read:
20.865 (1) (tz)  Salary and fringe benefit costs incurred in enterprise 
assessments and billings; segregated revenues.   From the appropriate segregated 
funds, a sum sufficient to supplement the appropriations to state agencies for 
enterprise assessments and billings that are increased because of compensation 
and related adjustments that are approved by the legislature under s. 111.92 for 
represented employees and by the joint committee on employment relations under 
s. 230.12.  In this paragraph, Xenterprise assessments and billings Y means charges 
from the department of administration for services provided directly to state 
agencies by employees of the department of administration.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 565 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  414
SECTION  414.  20.866 (1) (u) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (1) (u)  Principal repayment and interest.   A sum sufficient from 
moneys appropriated under sub. (2) (zp) and ss. 20.115 (2) (d) and (7) (b) and, (br), 
(s), and (tb), 20.190 (1) (c), (d), (i), and (j), 20.225 (1) (c) and (i), 20.245 (1) (e) and (j), 
20.250 (1) (c) and (e), 20.255 (1) (d), 20.285 (1) (d), (gj), and (je), 20.320 (1) (c) and (t) 
and (2) (c), 20.370 (7) (aa), (ad), (ag), (aq), (ar), (at), (au), (bq), (br), (cb), (cc), (cd), 
(cg), (cq), (cr), (cs), (ct), (ea), (eq), and (er), 20.395 (6) (af), (aq), (ar), and (au), 20.410 
(1) (e), (ec), and (ko) and (3) (e) and (fm), 20.435 (2) (ee), 20.465 (1) (d), 20.485 (1) (f) 
and (go) and (4) (qm), 20.505 (4) (es), (et), (ha), and (hb) and (5) (c), (g), and (kc), 
20.855 (8) (a), and 20.867 (1) (a) and (b) and (3) (a), (b), (bb), (bc), (bd), (be), (bf), (bg), 
(bh), (bj), (bL), (bm), (bn), (bo), (bq), (br), (bt), (bu), (bv), (bw), (bx), (cb), (cd), (cf), 
(ch), (cj), (cq), (cr), (cs), (cv), (cw), (cx), (cz), (g), (h), (i), (kd), and (q) for the payment 
of principal, interest, premium due, if any, and payment due, if any, under an 
agreement or ancillary arrangement entered into under s. 18.06 (8) (a) relating to 
any public debt contracted under subchs. I and IV of ch. 18.
SECTION  415.  20.866 (2) (ta) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (2) (ta)  Natural resources; Warren Knowles-Gaylord Nelson 
stewardship 2000 program.   From the capital improvement fund a sum sufficient 
for the Warren Knowles-Gaylord Nelson stewardship 2000 program under s. 
23.0917.  The state may contract public debt in an amount not to exceed 
$1,046,250,000 $1,876,250,000 for this program.  The state may contract additional 
public debt in an amount up to $42,600,000 for this program.  The state may 
contract additional public debt in an amount up to $90,000,000.  Except as provided 
in s. 23.0917 (4g) (b), (4m) (k), (5), (5g), and (5m), the amounts obligated, as defined 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 566 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  415
in s. 23.0917 (1) (e), under this paragraph may not exceed $46,000,000 in fiscal year 
2000-01, may not exceed $46,000,000 in fiscal year 2001-02, may not exceed 
$60,000,000 in each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2002-03 and ending with 
fiscal year 2009-10, may not exceed $86,000,000 in fiscal year 2010-11, may not 
exceed $60,000,000 in fiscal year 2011-12, may not exceed $60,000,000 in fiscal year 
2012-13, may not exceed $47,500,000 in fiscal year 2013-14, may not exceed 
$54,500,000 in fiscal year 2014-15, and may not exceed $33,250,000 in each fiscal 
year beginning with 2015-16 and ending with fiscal year 2021-22.  Except as 
provided in s. 23.0917 (4g) (b), (4m) (f) and (k), (5g), and (5m), the amounts 
obligated, as defined in s. 23.0917 (1) (e), under this paragraph cannot exceed 
$33,250,000 in each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2022-23 and ending with 
fiscal year 2025-26.  Except as provided in s. 23.0917 (4g) (b), (4m) (f) and (k), (5g), 
and (5m), the amounts obligated, as defined in s. 23.0917 (1) (e), under this 
paragraph may not exceed $83,000,000 in each fiscal year beginning with fiscal 
year 2026-27 and ending with fiscal year 2035-36.
SECTION  416.  20.866 (2) (tf) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (2) (tf)  Natural resources; nonpoint source.   From the capital 
improvement fund, a sum sufficient for the department of natural resources to fund 
nonpoint source water pollution abatement projects under s. 281.65 (4c) and (4e).  
The state may contract public debt in an amount not to exceed $44,050,000 
$67,050,000 for this purpose.  The state may contract additional public debt in an 
amount up to $6,500,000 for this purpose.  The state may contract additional public 
debt in an amount up to $6,500,000 for this purpose.
SECTION  417.  20.866 (2) (th) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 567 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  417
20.866 (2) (th)  Natural resources; urban nonpoint source cost-sharing.   From 
the capital improvement fund, a sum sufficient for the department of natural 
resources to provide cost-sharing grants for urban nonpoint source water pollution 
abatement and storm water management projects under s. 281.66, to provide 
municipal flood control and riparian restoration cost-sharing grants under s. 
281.665, and to make the grant under 2007 Wisconsin Act 20, section 9135 (1i).  The 
state may contract public debt in an amount not to exceed $53,600,000 $72,600,000 
for this purpose.  The state may contract additional public debt in an amount up to 
$4,000,000 for this purpose.  The state may contract additional public debt in an 
amount up to $4,000,000 for this purpose.  Of those amounts, $500,000 is allocated 
in fiscal biennium 2001-03 for dam rehabilitation grants under s. 31.387.
SECTION  418.  20.866 (2) (ti) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (2) (ti)  Natural resources; contaminated sediment removal.   From the 
capital improvement fund, a sum sufficient for the department of natural resources 
to fund removal of contaminated sediment under s. 281.87.  The state may contract 
public debt in an amount not to exceed $32,000,000 $49,000,000 for this purpose.  
The state may contract additional public debt in an amount up to $4,000,000 for 
this purpose.  The state may contract additional public debt in an amount up to 
$4,000,000 for this purpose.
SECTION  419.  20.866 (2) (tx) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (2) (tx)  Natural resources; dam safety projects.   From the capital 
improvement fund, a sum sufficient for the department of natural resources to 
provide financial assistance to counties, cities, villages, towns, and public inland 
lake protection and rehabilitation districts for dam safety projects under s. 31.385.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 568 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  419
The state may contract public debt in an amount not to exceed $25,500,000 
$54,500,000 for this purpose.  The state may contract additional public debt in an 
amount up to $4,000,000 for this purpose.  The state may contract additional public 
debt in an amount up to $10,000,000 for this purpose.
SECTION  420.  20.866 (2) (uup) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (2) (uup) 1.  From the capital improvement fund, a sum sufficient for 
the department of transportation to fund the Marquette interchange reconstruction 
project under s. 84.014, as provided under s. 84.555, the reconstruction of the I 94 
north-south corridor and the zoo interchange, as provided under s. 84.555 (1m), the 
reconstruction of the I 94 east-west corridor, as provided under s. 84.555 (1m), 
southeast Wisconsin freeway megaprojects under s. 84.0145, as provided under s. 
84.555 (1m), and high-cost state highway bridge projects under s. 84.017, as 
provided under s. 84.555 (1m).  The state may contract public debt in an amount not 
to exceed $704,750,000 for these purposes.  In addition, the state may contract 
public debt in an amount not to exceed $107,000,000 for the reconstruction of the 
Zoo interchange and I 94 north-south corridor, as provided under s. 84.555 (1m), as 
southeast Wisconsin freeway megaprojects under s. 84.0145, in an amount not to 
exceed $216,800,000 for high-cost state highway bridge projects under s. 84.017, as 
provided under s. 84.555 (1m), in an amount not to exceed $300,000,000 for 
southeast Wisconsin freeway megaprojects under s. 84.0145, as provided under s. 
84.555 (1m), in an amount not to exceed $95,000,000 for the reconstruction of the 
Zoo interchange, as provided under s. 84.555 (1m), as a southeast Wisconsin 
freeway megaproject under s. 84.0145, and in an amount up to $40,000,000 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 569 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  420
$225,171,300 for the reconstruction of the I 94 east-west corridor, as provided under 
s. 84.555 (1m), as a southeast Wisconsin freeway megaproject under s. 84.0145.
SECTION  421.  20.866 (2) (uuv) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (2) (uuv)  Transportation; design-build projects.   From the capital 
improvement fund, a sum sufficient for the department of transportation to fund 
design-build projects under s. 84.062 that are state highway rehabilitation projects, 
major highway projects, or southeast Wisconsin freeway megaprojects.  The state 
may contract public debt in an amount up to $20,000,000 $112,500,000 for this 
purpose.
SECTION  422.  20.866 (2) (uv) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (2) (uv)  Transportation, harbor improvements.   From the capital 
improvement fund, a sum sufficient for the department of transportation to provide 
grants for harbor improvements.  The state may contract public debt in an amount 
not to exceed $120,000,000 $197,300,000 for this purpose.  The state may contract 
additional public debt in an amount up to $32,000,000 for this purpose.  The state 
may contract additional public debt in an amount up to $15,300,000 for this 
purpose.
SECTION  423.  20.866 (2) (uw) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (2) (uw)  Transportation; rail acquisitions and improvements and 
intermodal freight facilities.   From the capital improvement fund, a sum sufficient 
for the department of transportation to acquire railroad property under ss. 85.08 (2) 
(L) and 85.09; to provide grants and loans for rail property acquisitions and 
improvements under s. 85.08 (4m) (c) and (d); and to provide intermodal freight 
facilities grants under s. 85.093.  The state may contract public debt in an amount 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 570 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  423
not to exceed $250,300,000 $305,300,000 for these purposes.  The state may 
contract additional public debt in an amount up to $30,000,000 for these purposes.  
The state may contract additional public debt in an amount up to $20,000,000 for 
these purposes.
SECTION  424.  20.866 (2) (we) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (2) (we)  Agriculture; soil and water.   From the capital improvement 
fund, a sum sufficient for the department of agriculture, trade and consumer 
protection to provide for soil and water resource management under s. 92.14.  The 
state may contract public debt in an amount not to exceed $68,075,000 $92,075,000 
for this purpose.  The state may contract additional public debt in an amount up to 
$7,000,000 for this purpose.  The state may contract additional public debt in an 
amount up to $7,000,000 for this purpose.
SECTION  425.  20.866 (2) (wg) of the statutes is created to read:
20.866 (2) (wg)  Agricultural conservation easements.   From the capital 
improvement fund, a sum sufficient for the department of agriculture, trade and 
consumer protection to purchase agricultural conservation easements under s. 
93.73.  The state may contract public debt in an amount not to exceed $15,000,000 
for this purpose.
SECTION  426.  20.866 (2) (xm) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.866 (2) (xm)  Building commission; refunding tax-supported and self-
amortizing general obligation debt.   From the capital improvement fund, a sum 
sufficient to refund the whole or any part of any unpaid indebtedness used to 
finance tax-supported or self-amortizing facilities.  In addition to the amount that 
may be contracted under par. (xe), the state may contract public debt in an amount 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 571 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  426
not to exceed $7,510,000,000 $12,835,000,000 for this purpose.  The state may 
contract additional public debt in an amount up to $2,000,000,000 for this purpose.  
The state may contract additional public debt in an amount up to $1,725,000,000 
for this purpose.  Such indebtedness shall be construed to include any premium and 
interest payable with respect thereto.  Debt incurred by this paragraph shall be 
repaid under the appropriations providing for the retirement of public debt 
incurred for tax-supported and self-amortizing facilities in proportional amounts to 
the purposes for which the debt was refinanced.  No moneys may be expended under 
this paragraph unless the true interest costs to the state can be reduced by the 
expenditure.
SECTION  427.  20.921 (1) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
20.921 (1) (a) 2.  If the state employee is a public safety employee under s. 
111.81 (15r) or is in a collective bargaining unit containing a frontline worker under 
s. 111.81 (9b), payment of dues to employee organizations.
SECTION  428.  20.923 (4) (c) 8. of the statutes is created to read:
20.923 (4) (c) 8.  Administration, department of: director of Native American 
affairs.
SECTION  429.  20.923 (6) (as) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.923 (6) (as)  Each elective executive officer other than the state treasurer, 
secretary of state, attorney general, and superintendent of public instruction: a 
deputy or assistant.
SECTION  430.  20.923 (6) (bn) of the statutes is created to read:
20.923 (6) (bn)  Corrections, department of: ombudsperson of the office of the 
ombudsperson for corrections.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 572 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  431
SECTION  431.  20.923 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
20.923 (8)  DEPUTIES .  Salaries for deputies appointed pursuant to ss. 13.94 (3) 
(b), 15.04 (2), and 551.601 (1) shall be set by the appointing authority.  The salary, 
other than the salary of the deputy secretary of the department of employee trust 
funds, shall not exceed the maximum of the salary range one range below the salary 
range of the executive salary group to which the department or agency head is 
assigned.  The deputy secretary of state and associate director of the historical 
society shall be treated as an unclassified deputy deputies for pay purposes under 
this subsection.  The salary of the deputy director of the office of business 
development in the department of administration is assigned to executive salary 
group 2.
SECTION  432.  20.9315 of the statutes is created to read:
20.9315   False claims; actions by or on behalf of state.   (1)  In this 
section:
(a) 1.  XClaimY means any request or demand, whether under a contract or 
otherwise, for money or property, whether the state has title to the money or 
property, that is any of the following:
a.  Presented to an officer, employee, agent, or other representative of the 
state.
b.  Made to a contractor, grantee, or other person if the money or property is to 
be spent or used on the state [s behalf or to advance a state program or interest and 
if the state provides any portion of the money or property that is requested or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 573 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  432
demanded or will reimburse directly or indirectly the contractor, grantee, or other 
person for any portion of the money or property that is requested or demanded.
2.  XClaimY includes a request or demand for services from a state agency or as 
part of a state program.
3.  XClaimY does not include requests or demands for money or property that 
the state has paid to an individual as compensation for state employment or as an 
income subsidy with no restriction on that individual [s use of the money or 
property.
(b)  XKnowingly Y means, with respect to information, having actual knowledge 
of the information, acting in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the 
information, or acting in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the information.  
XKnowingly Y does not mean specifically intending to defraud.
(c)  XMaterial Y means having a natural tendency to influence, or be capable of 
influencing, the payment or receipt of money or property or the receipt of services.
(d)  XMedical assistance Y has the meaning given under s. 49.43 (8).
(e)  XObligation Y has the meaning given in 31 USC 3729 (b) (3).
(f)  XOriginal source Y has the meaning given in 31 USC 3730 (e) (4) (B).
(g)  XProceeds Y includes damages, civil penalties, surcharges, payments for 
costs of compliance, and any other economic benefit realized by this state as a result 
of an action or settlement of a claim.
(2)  Except as provided in sub. (3), any person who does any of the following is 
liable to this state for 3 times the amount of the damages that were sustained by the 
state or would have been sustained by the state,whichever is greater, because of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 574 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  432
actions of the person and shall forfeit, for each violation, an amount within the 
range specified under 31 USC 3729 (a):
(a)  Knowingly presents or causes to be presented a false or fraudulent claim to 
a state agency, including a false or fraudulent claim for medical assistance.
(b)  Knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used a false record or 
statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to a state agency, including a false 
or fraudulent claim for medical assistance.
(c)  Knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used a false record or 
statement material to an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the 
Medical Assistance program, or knowingly conceals or knowingly and improperly 
avoids or decreases an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the 
Medical Assistance program.
(d)  Knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used a false record or 
statement material to an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to a state 
agency or knowingly conceals or knowingly and improperly avoids or decreases an 
obligation to pay or transmit money or property to a state agency.
(e)  Conspires to commit a violation under par. (a), (b), (c), or (d).
(3)  The court may assess against a person who violates sub. (2) not less than 
2 nor more than 3 times the amount of the damages sustained by the state because 
of the acts of the person, and shall not assess any forfeiture, if the court finds all of 
the following:
(a)  The person who commits the acts furnished the attorney general with all 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 575 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  432
information known to the person about the acts within 30 days after the date on 
which the person obtained the information.
(b)  The person fully cooperated with any investigation by this state of the acts.
(c)  At the time that the person furnished the attorney general with 
information concerning the acts, no criminal prosecution or civil or administrative 
enforcement action had been commenced with respect to any such act, and the 
person did not have actual knowledge of the existence of any investigation into any 
such act.
(5) (a)  Except as provided in subs. (10) and (12), any person may bring a civil 
action as a qui tam plaintiff against a person who commits an act in violation of sub. 
(2) for the person and the state in the name of the state.
(b)  The plaintiff under par. (a) shall serve upon the attorney general a copy of 
the complaint and documents disclosing substantially all material evidence and 
information that the plaintiff possesses.  The plaintiff shall file a copy of the 
complaint with the court for inspection in camera.  Except as provided in par. (c), 
the complaint shall remain under seal for a period of 60 days from the date of filing 
and shall not be served upon the defendant until the court so orders.  Within 60 
days from the date of service upon the attorney general of the complaint, evidence, 
and information under this paragraph, the attorney general may intervene in the 
action.
(bm)  Any complaint filed by the state in intervention, whether filed separately 
or as an amendment to the qui tam plaintiff [s complaint, shall relate back to the 
filing date of the qui tam plaintiff [s complaint to the extent that the state [s claim 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 576 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  432
arises out of the conduct, transactions, or occurrences set forth, or attempted to be 
set forth, in the qui tam plaintiff [s complaint.
(c)  The attorney general may, for good cause shown, move the court for one or 
more extensions of the period during which a complaint in an action under this 
subsection remains under seal.
(d)  Before the expiration of the period during which the complaint remains 
under seal, the attorney general shall do one of the following:
1.  Proceed with the action or an alternate remedy under sub. (10), in which 
case the action or proceeding under sub. (10) shall be prosecuted by the state.
2.  Notify the court that he or she declines to proceed with the action, in which 
case the person bringing the action may proceed with the action.
(e)  If a person brings a valid action under this subsection, no person other 
than the state may intervene or bring a related action based upon the same facts 
underlying the original action while the original action is pending.
(f)  In any action brought under this subsection or other proceeding under sub. 
(10), the plaintiff is required to prove all essential elements of the cause of action or 
complaint, including damages, by a preponderance of the evidence.
(6)  If the state proceeds with an action under sub. (5) or an alternate remedy 
under sub. (10), the state has primary responsibility for prosecuting the action 
under sub. (5) or proceeding under sub. (10).  The state is not bound by any act of 
the person bringing the action, but that person has the right to continue as a party 
to the action.
(7) (b)  With the approval of the governor, the attorney general may 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 577 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  432
compromise and settle an action under sub. (5) or an administrative proceeding 
under sub. (10) to which the state is a party, notwithstanding objection of the 
person bringing the action, if the court determines, after affording to the person 
bringing the action the right to a hearing at which the person is afforded the 
opportunity to present evidence in opposition to the proposed settlement, that the 
proposed settlement is fair, adequate, and reasonable considering the relevant 
circumstances pertaining to the violation.
(c)  Upon a showing by the state that unrestricted participation in the 
prosecution of an action under sub. (5) or an alternate proceeding under sub. (10) to 
which the state is a party by the person bringing the action would interfere with or 
unduly delay the prosecution of the action or proceeding, or would result in 
consideration of repetitious or irrelevant evidence or evidence presented for 
purposes of harassment, the court may limit the person [s participation in the 
prosecution, such as:
1.  Limiting the number of witnesses that the person may call.
2.  Limiting the length of the testimony of the witnesses.
3.  Limiting the cross-examination of witnesses by the person.
4.  Otherwise limiting the participation by the person in the prosecution of the 
action or proceeding.
(d)  Upon a showing by a defendant that unrestricted participation in the 
prosecution of an action under sub. (5) or alternate proceeding under sub. (10) to 
which the state is a party by the person bringing the action would result in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 578 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  432
harassment or would cause the defendant undue burden or unnecessary expense, 
the court may limit the person [s participation in the prosecution.
(8)  Except as provided in sub. (7), if the state elects not to participate in an 
action filed under sub. (5), the person bringing the action may prosecute the action.  
If the attorney general so requests, the attorney general shall, at the state [s 
expense, be served with copies of all pleadings and deposition transcripts in the 
action.  If the person bringing the action initiates prosecution of the action, the 
court, without limiting the status and rights of that person, may permit the state to 
intervene at a later date upon a showing by the state of good cause for the proposed 
intervention.
(9)  Whether or not the state participates in an action under sub. (5), upon a 
showing in camera by the attorney general that discovery by the person bringing 
the action would interfere with the state [s ongoing investigation or prosecution of a 
criminal or civil matter arising out of the same facts as the facts upon which the 
action is based, the court may stay such discovery in whole or in part for a period of 
not more than 60 days.  The court may extend the period of any such stay upon a 
further showing in camera by the attorney general that the state has pursued the 
criminal or civil investigation of the matter with reasonable diligence and the 
proposed discovery in the action brought under sub. (5) will interfere with the 
ongoing criminal or civil investigation or prosecution.
(10)  The attorney general may pursue a claim relating to an alleged violation 
of sub. (2) through an alternate remedy available to the state or any state agency, 
including an administrative proceeding to assess a civil forfeiture.  If the attorney 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 579 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  432
general elects any such alternate remedy, the attorney general shall serve timely 
notice of his or her election upon the person bringing the action under sub. (5), and 
that person has the same rights in the alternate venue as the person would have 
had if the action had continued under sub. (5).  Any finding of fact or conclusion of 
law made by a court or by a state agency in the alternate venue that has become 
final is conclusive upon all parties named in an action under sub. (5).  For purposes 
of this subsection, a finding or conclusion is final if it has been finally determined 
on appeal, if all time for filing an appeal or petition for review with respect to the 
finding or conclusion has expired, or if the finding or conclusion is not subject to 
judicial review.
(11) (a)  Except as provided in pars. (b) and (e), if the state proceeds with an 
action brought by a person under sub. (5) or the state pursues an alternate remedy 
relating to the same acts under sub. (10), the person who brings the action shall 
receive at least 15 percent but not more than 25 percent of the proceeds of the action 
or settlement of the claim, depending upon the extent to which the person 
contributed to the prosecution of the action or claim.
(b)  Except as provided in par. (e), if an action or claim is one that the court or 
other adjudicator finds to be based primarily upon disclosures of specific 
information not provided by the person who brings the action or claim under sub. 
(5) relating to allegations or transactions specifically disclosed in a criminal, civil, 
or administrative hearing; legislative or administrative report, hearing, audit, or 
investigation; or report made by the news media, the court or other adjudicator may 
award an amount to the person as it considers appropriate, but not more than 10 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 580 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  432
percent of the proceeds of the action or settlement of the claim, depending upon the 
significance of the information and the role of the person bringing the action in 
advancing the prosecution of the action or claim.
(c)  Except as provided in par. (e), in addition to any amount received under 
par. (a) or (b), a person bringing an action under sub. (5) shall be awarded his or her 
reasonable expenses necessarily incurred in bringing the action together with the 
person[s costs and reasonable actual attorney fees.  The court or other adjudicator 
shall assess any award under this paragraph against the defendant.
(d)  Except as provided in par. (e), if the state does not proceed with an action 
under sub. (5) or an alternate proceeding under sub. (10), the person bringing the 
action shall receive an amount that the court decides is reasonable for collection of 
the civil penalty and damages.  The amount shall be not less than 25 percent and 
not more than 30 percent of the proceeds of the action and shall be paid from the 
proceeds.  In addition, the person shall be paid his or her expenses, costs, and fees 
under par. (c).
(e)  Whether or not the state proceeds with an action under sub. (5) or an 
alternate proceeding under sub. (10), if the court or other adjudicator finds that an 
action under sub. (5) was brought by a person who planned or initiated the violation 
upon which the action or proceeding is based, then the court may, to the extent that 
the court considers appropriate, reduce the share of the proceeds of the action that 
the person would otherwise receive under par. (a), (b), or (d), taking into account the 
role of that person in advancing the prosecution of the action or claim and any other 
relevant circumstance pertaining to the violation, except that if the person bringing 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 581 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  432
the action is convicted of criminal conduct arising from his or her role in a violation 
of sub. (2), the court or other adjudicator shall dismiss the person as a party and the 
person shall not receive any share of the proceeds of the action or claim or any 
expenses, costs, or fees under par. (c).
(12)  Except if the action is brought by the attorney general or the person 
bringing the action is an original source of the information, the court shall dismiss 
an action or claim under this section, unless opposed by the state, if substantially 
the same allegations or transactions as alleged in the action or claim were publicly 
disclosed in any of the following ways:
(a)  In a federal criminal, civil, or administrative hearing in which the state or 
its agent is a party.
(b)  In a congressional, government accountability office, or other federal 
report, hearing, audit, or investigation.
(c)  From the news media.
(13)  The state is not liable for any expenses incurred by a private person in 
bringing an action under sub. (5).
(14)  Any employee, contractor, or agent who is discharged, demoted, 
suspended, threatened, harassed, or in any other manner discriminated against in 
the terms and conditions of employment because of lawful actions taken by the 
employee, contractor, or agent or by others in furtherance of an action or claim filed 
under this section or on behalf of the employee, contractor, or agent, including 
investigation for, initiation of, testimony for, or assistance in an action or claim filed 
or to be filed under sub. (5), is entitled to all necessary relief to make the employee, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 582 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  432
contractor, or agent whole.  Such relief shall in each case include reinstatement 
with the same seniority status that the employee, contractor, or agent would have 
had but for the discrimination, 2 times the amount of back pay, interest on the back 
pay at the legal rate, and compensation for any special damages sustained as a 
result of the discrimination, including costs and reasonable attorney fees.  An 
employee, contractor, or agent may bring an action to obtain the relief to which the 
employee, contractor, or agent is entitled under this subsection within 3 years after 
the date the retaliation occurred.
(15)  A civil action may be brought under sub. (5) based upon acts occurring 
prior to the effective date of this subsection .... [LRB inserts date], if the action is 
brought within the period specified in s. 893.9815.
(16)  A judgment of guilty entered against a defendant in a criminal action in 
which the defendant is charged with fraud or making false statements estops the 
defendant from denying the essential elements of the offense in any action under 
sub. (5) that involves the same elements as in the criminal action.
(17)  The remedies provided for under this section are in addition to any other 
remedies provided for under any other law or available under the common law.
(18)  This section shall be liberally construed and applied to promote the 
public interest and to effect the congressional intent in enacting 31 USC 3729 to 
3733, as reflected in the federal False Claims Act and the legislative history of the 
act.
SECTION  433.  20.940 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  434.  23.0917 (2) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 583 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  434
23.0917 (2) (a) 2.  A subprogram for state property development and local 
assistance parks and recreation.
SECTION  435.  23.0917 (2) (a) 3m. of the statutes is amended to read:
23.0917 (2) (a) 3m.  A subprogram for recreational boating aids local 
recreation boat facilities.
SECTION  436.  23.0917 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
23.0917 (3) (a)  Beginning with fiscal year 2000-01 and ending with fiscal year 
2025-26 2035-36, the department may obligate moneys under the subprogram for 
land acquisition to acquire land for the purposes specified in s. 23.09 (2) (d) and 
grants for these purposes under s. 23.096, except as provided under ss. 23.197 (2m), 
(3m) (b), (7m), and (8) and 23.198 (1) (a).
SECTION  437.  23.0917 (3) (br) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
23.0917 (3) (br) 3.  For each fiscal year beginning with 2026-27 and ending 
with 2035-36, $14,000,000.
SECTION  438.  23.0917 (3) (bt) 4. of the statutes is created to read:
23.0917 (3) (bt) 4.  For each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2026-27 and 
ending with fiscal year 2035-36, $1,000,000.
SECTION  439.  23.0917 (3) (bw) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
23.0917 (3) (bw) 2.  In obligating moneys under the subprogram for land 
acquisition, for each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2022-23 and ending with 
fiscal year 2025-26, the department shall set aside the amount transferred to the 
capital improvement fund under s. 20.370 (5) (hr), 2023 stats., in that fiscal year to 
be obligated only to provide grants to counties under s. 23.0953.
SECTION  440.  23.0917 (3) (c) 8. of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 584 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  440
23.0917 (3) (c) 8.  Grants under s. 23.0952 to acquire land for recreational 
vehicle trails.
SECTION  441.  23.0917 (3) (dm) 9. of the statutes is created to read:
23.0917 (3) (dm) 9.  For each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2026-27 
and ending with fiscal year 2035-36, $15,000,000.
SECTION  442 .  23.0917 (4) (title), (a) and (b) (intro.) of the statutes are 
amended to read:
23.0917 (4) (title)  P ROPERTY  STATE  PROPERTY  DEVELOPMENT  AND LOCAL  
ASSISTANCE  PARKS  AND RECREATION  SUBPROGRAM .  (a)  Beginning with fiscal year 
2000-01 and ending with fiscal year 2025-26 2035-36, the department may obligate 
moneys under the subprogram for state property development and local assistance 
parks and recreation.  Moneys obligated under this subprogram may be only used 
for nature-based outdoor recreation, except as provided under par. (cm).
(b) (intro.)  The purposes for which moneys may be obligated for local 
assistance under the subprogram for state property development and local 
assistance parks and recreation are the following:
SECTION  443.  23.0917 (4) (b) 5. of the statutes is created to read:
23.0917 (4) (b) 5.  Grants under s. 23.0952 for construction of recreational 
vehicle trail crossings for interchange projects.
SECTION  444 .  23.0917 (4) (c) (intro.) and (cm) (intro.) of the statutes are 
amended to read:
23.0917 (4) (c) (intro.)  The purposes for which moneys may be obligated for 
property development under the subprogram for state property development and 
local assistance parks and recreation are the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 585 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  444
(cm) (intro.)  Notwithstanding the purposes for which the department is 
authorized to obligate moneys under pars. (a), (b), and (c), the department may 
obligate moneys under the subprogram for state property development and local 
assistance parks and recreation for any of the following purposes:
SECTION  445.  23.0917 (4) (d) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
23.0917 (4) (d) (intro.)  In obligating moneys under the subprogram for state 
property development and local assistance parks and recreation, all of the following 
shall apply:
SECTION  446.  23.0917 (4) (d) 1m. g. of the statutes is created to read:
23.0917 (4) (d) 1m. g.  For each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2026-27 
and ending with fiscal year 2035-36, $51,500,000.
SECTION  447.  23.0917 (4) (d) 2m. c. of the statutes is created to read:
23.0917 (4) (d) 2m. c.  Beginning with fiscal year 2026-27 and ending with 
fiscal year 2035-36, the department shall obligate $36,050,000 in each fiscal year 
for local assistance.
SECTION  448.  23.0917 (4) (d) 3. d. of the statutes is created to read:
23.0917 (4) (d) 3. d.  Beginning with fiscal year 2026-27 and ending with fiscal 
year 2035-36, $15,450,000.
SECTION  449.  23.0917 (4) (e) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
23.0917 (4) (e) (intro.)  Beginning with fiscal year 2022-23 and ending with 
fiscal year 2025-26 2035-36, of the amounts obligated for property development, the 
department shall set aside the following amounts for the following purposes:
SECTION  450.  23.0917 (4) (e) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 586 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  450
23.0917 (4) (e) 1.  For grants under s. 23.098, $500,000 $2,500,000 in each 
fiscal year.
SECTION  451.  23.0917 (4j) (title) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to 
read:
23.0917 (4j) (title)  L OCAL  RECREATION  BOAT  FACILITIES .
SECTION  452.  23.0917 (4j) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
23.0917 (4j) (b)  For fiscal year 2007-08, the department may not obligate 
more than $1,500,000 for cost-sharing with local governmental units for 
recreational boating projects under s. 30.92.  For each fiscal year beginning with 
fiscal year 2008-09 and ending with fiscal year 2021-22, the department may not 
obligate more than $2,500,000 for cost-sharing with local governmental units for 
recreational boating projects under s. 30.92.  For each fiscal year beginning with 
fiscal year 2022-23 and ending with fiscal year 2025-26, the department cannot 
obligate more than $3,000,000 for cost-sharing with local governmental units for 
recreational boating projects under s. 30.92.  For each fiscal year beginning with 
fiscal year 2026-27 and ending with fiscal year 2035-36, the department may not 
obligate more than $9,000,000 for cost-sharing with local governmental units for 
recreational boating projects under s. 30.92.
SECTION  453.  23.0917 (5g) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
23.0917 (5g) (a)  Except as provided in pars. (b) to (j), if for a given fiscal year, 
the department obligates an amount from the moneys appropriated under s. 20.866 
(2) (ta) for a subprogram under sub. (3) or (4) that is less than the annual bonding 
authority under that subprogram for that given fiscal year, the department may not 
obligate the unobligated amount in subsequent fiscal years.  This subsection 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 587 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  453
applies beginning with fiscal year 2011-12 and ending with fiscal year 2025-26 
2035-36.
SECTION  454.  23.0917 (7) (e) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
23.0917 (7) (e) 3.  Subdivision 1. does not apply beginning with fiscal year 
2026-27.
SECTION  455.  23.0917 (8) (f) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
23.0917 (8) (f) 2.  Beginning with fiscal year 2013-14 and ending with fiscal 
year 2025-26, of the amount set aside for a given fiscal year under sub. (3) (bt), not 
more than one-third of that amount may be obligated for the purpose of the 
acquisition of land by the department.
SECTION  456.  23.0917 (12) of the statutes is amended to read:
23.0917 (12)  EXPENDITURES  AFTER  2026.  No moneys may be obligated from 
the appropriation under s. 20.866 (2) (ta) after June 30, 2026 2036.
SECTION  457.  23.0952 of the statutes is created to read:
23.0952   Motorized recreation grants.   (1)  In this section:
(a)  XAll-terrain vehicle trail Y has the meaning given in s. 23.33 (1) (d).
(b)  XLandY means land in fee simple or an easement.
(c)  XOff-highway motorcycle trail Y has the meaning given in s. 23.335 (1) (v).
(d)  XRecreational vehicle club Y means an all-terrain vehicle club, as defined 
under s. 23.33 (1) (bc), a utility terrain vehicle club, as defined under s. 23.33 (1) 
(nh), an off-highway motorcycle association, as defined under s. 23.335 (1) (qm), or 
a snowmobile club, as defined under s. 350.12 (3j) (bg) 1.
(e)  XSnowmobile trail Y has the meaning given in s. 350.01 (17).
(2)  Beginning with fiscal year 2026-27 and ending with fiscal year 2035-36, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 588 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  457
the department shall establish a grant program under which the department may 
award a grant to a county, city, village, town, or recreational vehicle club for any of 
the following purposes:
(a)  To acquire land for the purpose of establishing an all-terrain vehicle trail, 
off-highway motorcycle trail, or snowmobile trail.
(b)  To construct a trail crossing for an all-terrain vehicle trail, off-highway 
motorcycle trail, or snowmobile trail as part of an interchange project.
(3)  Grants under this section shall be awarded from the appropriation under 
s. 20.866 (2) (ta), and the department shall allocate a total of $5,000,000 in each 
fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2026-27 for these grants.  For purposes of s. 
23.0917, grants awarded under sub. (2) (a) to acquire land shall be treated as 
moneys obligated from the subprogram under s. 23.0917 (3) and grants awarded 
under sub. (2) (b) for the construction of trail crossings shall be treated as moneys 
obligated from the subprogram under s. 23.0917 (4).
(4)  A grant recipient may not convert the land, or any rights in the land, 
acquired with grant moneys awarded under this section to a use that is inconsistent 
with the type of trail for which the grant was awarded unless the natural resources 
board approves the conversion.
SECTION  458.  23.096 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
23.096   (title)  Grants Stewardship grants to nonprofit conservation 
organizations.
SECTION  459.  23.096 (2m) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
23.096 (2m)  (intro.)  Notwithstanding sub. (2) (b), in each fiscal year 
beginning with fiscal year 2010-11 and ending with fiscal year 2025-26 2035-36, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 589 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  459
department may award grants under this section that equal up to 75 percent of the 
acquisition costs of the property if the natural resources board determines that all 
of the following apply:
SECTION  460.  23.0961 of the statutes is created to read:
23.0961   Grants to nonprofit conservation organizations.   The 
department may award grants from the appropriation under s. 20.370 (5) (ha) to 
nonprofit conservation organizations to support wildlife and habitat management.
SECTION  461.  23.0966 of the statutes is created to read:
23.0966   Tribal co-management program.   The department shall establish 
a program under which it coordinates with the federally recognized American 
Indian tribes or bands domiciled in this state in the management of education 
infrastructure, land management activities, and other activities on department 
land, as defined under s. 23.0917 (1) (c).
SECTION  462.  23.098 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
23.098 (2)  The department shall establish a program to make grants from the 
appropriations under s. 20.866 (2) (ta) and (tz) to friends groups and nonprofit 
conservation organizations for projects for property development activities on 
department properties.  The department may not encumber more than $500,000 
$2,500,000 in each fiscal year for these grants.
SECTION  463.  23.098 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
23.098 (4) (b)  The department may not encumber more than $20,000 $50,000 
for grants under this section for a department property in each fiscal year.
SECTION  464.  23.197 (15) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  465.  23.1987 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 590 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  465
23.1987 (1)  From the moneys appropriated under s. 20.866 (2) (ta), the 
department shall set aside $7,000,000 in fiscal year 2014-15 that may be obligated 
only for infrastructure improvements to the Kettle Moraine Springs fish hatchery.  
For purposes of s. 23.0917, moneys obligated under this subsection shall be treated 
as moneys obligated under the property development and local assistance 
subprogram under s. 23.0917 (4).  Section 23.0917 (5g) does not apply with respect 
to amounts obligated before July 1, 2018, under this subsection.
SECTION  466.  23.1991 of the statutes is created to read:
23.1991   Great Lakes erosion control revolving loan program.   (1)  The 
department shall administer a revolving loan program to assist municipalities and 
owners of homes located on the shore of Lake Michigan or Lake Superior where the 
structural integrity of municipal buildings or homes is threatened by erosion of the 
shoreline.
(2)  The department shall make loans under this section from the 
appropriation under s. 20.370 (9) (pq).
(3)  The department shall promulgate rules to administer this section, 
including rules establishing eligibility criteria and income limitations for loans 
under this section.
SECTION  467.  23.1993 of the statutes is created to read:
23.1993   Mississippi River erosion control revolving loan program.   (1)  
The department shall administer a revolving loan program to assist municipalities 
and owners of homes located on the shore of the Mississippi River where the 
structural integrity of municipal buildings or homes is threatened by erosion of the 
shoreline.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 591 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  467
(2)  The department shall make loans under this section from the 
appropriation under s. 20.370 (9) (pq).
(3)  The department shall promulgate rules to administer this section, 
including rules establishing eligibility criteria and income limitations for loans 
under this section.
SECTION  468.  23.33 (1) (nh) of the statutes is created to read:
23.33 (1) (nh)  XUtility terrain vehicle club Y means a club consisting of 
individuals that promotes the recreational use of utility terrain vehicles.
SECTION  469.  23.405 of the statutes is created to read:
23.405   Report on environmental impacts to covered communities.   (1)  
In this section:
(a)  XCovered community Y means a census tract that is at or above the 65th 
percentile for share of households with a household income at or below 200 percent 
of the federal poverty level and is any of the following:
1.  At or above the 90th percentile for share of households that are both 
earning less than 80 percent of area median family income, as determined by the 
federal department of housing and urban development, and are spending more than 
30 percent of their income on housing costs.
2.  At or above the 90th percentile for share of homes built before 1960.
3.  At or above the 90th percentile for having hazardous waste treatment, 
storage, or disposal facilities or large quantity generators located within 3.1 miles.
4.  At or above the 90th percentile for number of proposed or listed sites 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 592 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  469
identified by the federal environmental protection agency as superfund or national 
priorities list sites located within 3.1 miles.
5.  At or above the 90th percentile for mixture of particles in diesel exhaust in 
the air, measured as pounds per cubic foot.
6.  At or above the 90th percentile for number of vehicles, based on average 
annual daily traffic, at major roads within 1,640 feet, divided by distance in feet.
7.  At or above the 90th percentile for risk-screening environmental indicators 
modeled toxic concentrations at stream segments within 1,640 feet, divided by 
distance in feet.
8.  Occupied by a federally recognized American Indian tribe or band.
(b)  XCumulative impacts Y means the combined past, present, and foreseeable 
future emissions and discharges occurring in a specific geographical area that are 
assessed based upon guidance issued by the department for exposure, public health 
or environmental risk, or other effects to the geographical area.
(c)  XFacilityY means any facility, the operation of which requires a permit 
issued by the department under ch. 283, 285, 289, or 291.
(2)  The department shall identify and maintain a list of covered communities 
in the state.  The department shall update the list as necessary to reflect the most 
recent data on household income and the most recent federal decennial census.
(3)  The department may not issue a permit under ch. 283, 285, 289, or 291 for 
the operation of a facility that is located wholly or partly within a covered 
community unless the permit applicant does all of the following:
(a)  Prepares a report assessing the environmental impact of the facility, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 593 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  469
including any cumulative impacts on the covered community, any adverse 
environmental effects that could not be avoided if the permit were issued, and the 
public health impact on the covered community.
(b)  Makes the report available to the public and provides the report to the 
department and the governing body and municipal clerk for the municipality in 
which the covered community is located.
(c)  Not less than 30 days after providing the report to the department and the 
governing body and municipal clerk under par. (b), conducts a public hearing in the 
municipality in which the covered community is located.  The permit applicant 
shall conduct the public hearing in a manner that provides clear, accurate, and 
complete information about the facility and that provides the opportunity for 
meaningful public participation by residents of the covered community.  Not less 
than 21 days prior to the hearing, the permit applicant shall publish public notices 
of the hearing in no fewer than 2 newspapers circulating within the covered 
community.  Not less than 14 days prior to the hearing, the permit applicant shall 
provide a copy of the public notice to the department and the governing body and 
the municipal clerk of the municipality in which the covered community is located.
(4)  If a permit applicant is applying for more than one permit for a proposed 
new or expanded facility that is subject to sub. (3), the permit applicant is not 
required to comply with sub. (3) more than once for permits applicable to that 
facility.
(5)  Following a public hearing conducted under sub. (3) (c), the department 
shall consider community support and any testimony presented in its decision to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 594 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  469
grant or deny a permit and shall evaluate any revisions or conditions to the permit 
that may be necessary to reduce the adverse impact to public health or to the 
environment in the covered community.
(6)  The department shall issue a decision on a permit application that is 
subject to sub. (3) not less than 60 days following the public hearing held as 
required by sub. (3) (c).  The department may deny an application for a permit for 
the operation of a facility that is located wholly or partly within a covered 
community if the department finds that the cumulative impact of the facility, in 
addition to the existing conditions in the covered community, constitute an 
unreasonable risk to the environment and the health of the residents in the covered 
community.
(7)  The department may promulgate any rules necessary to administer this 
section.
SECTION  470.  25.29 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
25.29 (1) (b)  One percent of all sales and use taxes under s. 77.61 (1) on all-
terrain vehicles, utility terrain vehicles, off-highway motorcycles, boats, and 
snowmobiles collected under ss. 23.33, 23.335, 30.52 (4), 350.12, and 350.122.
SECTION  471.  25.40 (1) (f) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
25.40 (1) (f) 1.  Moneys received from the federal government, for the 
regulation of railroads and water carriers, that are deposited in the general fund 
and credited to the appropriation under s. 20.155 (2) (m) 20.395 (7) (am).
SECTION  472.  25.491 (1) (c) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
25.491 (1) (c) 2.  The percentage change in the estimated amount of revenues 
received from the taxes imposed under ss. 77.52 and 77.53 for the previous fiscal 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 595 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  472
year from the immediately preceding fiscal year, as specified for that fiscal year as 
outlined in the summary of estimated general fund taxes under the biennial budget 
act prepared by the legislative fiscal bureau, multiplied by the sum of the amounts 
credited to the accounts under subs. (2) (a) and (9) in the previous fiscal year.
SECTION  473.  25.491 (1) (c) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
25.491 (1) (c) 3.  The percentage change in the estimated amount of revenues 
received from the taxes imposed under ss. 77.52 and 77.53 for the previous fiscal 
year from the immediately preceding fiscal year, as specified for that fiscal year as 
outlined in the summary of estimated general fund taxes under the biennial budget 
act prepared by the legislative fiscal bureau, multiplied by the amount credited to 
the account under sub. (8) in the previous fiscal year.
SECTION  474 .  25.491 (2) of the statutes is renumbered 25.491 (2) (a) and 
amended to read:
25.491 (2) (a)  There is established in the local government fund a separate 
account that is designated the Xcounty and municipal aid account Y to make the 
payments under s. 79.036.  In fiscal year 2024-25, the total amount of the payments 
made in the previous fiscal year under s. 79.035 shall be credited to this account.  In 
fiscal year 2025-26, and in each fiscal year thereafter, an amount equal to the 
amount credited to this account in the previous fiscal year, excluding any amount 
credited to this account under par. (b), increased by the percentage change in the 
amount of revenues received from the taxes imposed under ss. 77.52 and 77.53 for 
the previous fiscal year from the immediately preceding fiscal year as determined 
under sub. (1), shall be credited to this account.
SECTION  475.  25.491 (2) (b) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 596 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  475
25.491 (2) (b)  In fiscal year 2025-26, the amount credited to the county and 
municipal aid account shall be the amount determined under par. (a), plus 
$1,000,000 for the additional amount to be distributed to the city of Green Bay 
under s. 79.036 (5).
SECTION  476.  25.491 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
25.491 (8)  There is established in the local government fund a separate 
account that is designated Xmunicipal services Y to make payments as determined 
under s. 70.119 (7).  In fiscal year 2025-26, an amount equal to the total amount of 
the payments made in the previous fiscal year under s. 70.119 (7) shall be credited 
to this account.  In fiscal year 2026-27, and in each fiscal year thereafter, an amount 
equal to the amount credited to this account in the previous fiscal year, increased by 
the percentage change in the amount of revenues received from the taxes imposed 
under ss. 77.52 and 77.53 for the previous fiscal year from the immediately 
preceding fiscal year as determined under sub. (1), shall be credited to this account.
SECTION  477.  25.491 (13) of the statutes is created to read:
25.491 (13)  There is established in the local government fund a separate 
account that is designated the Xlocal construction project grants account" to make 
the payments under s. 16.095 (6).  All interest earnings of the local government 
fund shall be credited to this account.
SECTION  478.  25.491 (14) of the statutes is created to read:
25.491 (14) (a)  No later than July 1, 2026, the department of revenue shall 
determine the amount that revenues from the taxes imposed under ss. 77.52 and 
77.53 decreased in fiscal year 2025-26 due to the exemption under s. 77.54 (14) (g) 
and the exemption under s. 77.54 (30) (a) 2. for electricity and natural gas sold 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 597 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  478
during the months of May, June, July, August, September, and October for 
residential use.
(b) 1.  Notwithstanding subs. (1) (c) 2., (2), (8), and (9) (a) and (b), the 
department of revenue shall add the amount determined under par. (a) to the 
amount of revenues received from the taxes imposed under ss. 77.52 and 77.53 for 
fiscal year 2025-26, as specified for that fiscal year as outlined in the summary of 
estimated general fund taxes under the biennial budget act prepared by the 
legislative fiscal bureau, and that amount shall be used to determine the 
percentage change in the amount of revenues received from the taxes imposed 
under ss. 77.52 and 77.53 for fiscal year 2025-26 from fiscal year 2024-25 for 
purposes of subs. (1) (c) 2., (2), (8), and (9) (a) and (b).
2. a.  Notwithstanding sub. (2), in fiscal year 2026-27, an amount equal to the 
amount credited to the county and municipal aid account under sub. (2) in fiscal 
year 2025-26, increased by the percentage change determined under subd. 1., shall 
be credited to the county and municipal aid account under sub. (2).
b.  Notwithstanding sub. (8), in fiscal year 2026-27, an amount equal to the 
amount credited to the municipal services account under sub. (8) in fiscal year 
2025-26, increased by the percentage change determined under subd. 1., shall be 
credited to the municipal services account under sub. (8).
c.  Notwithstanding sub. (9) (a), in fiscal year 2026-27, an amount equal to the 
amount credited to the supplemental county and municipal aid account under sub. 
(9) (a) in fiscal year 2025-26, increased by the percentage change determined under 
subd. 1., shall be credited to the supplemental county and municipal aid account 
under sub. (9) (a).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 598 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  478
d.  Notwithstanding sub. (9) (b), in fiscal year 2026-27, an amount equal to the 
amount credited to the supplemental county and municipal aid account under sub. 
(9) (b) in fiscal year 2025-26, increased by the percentage change determined under 
subd. 1., shall be credited to the supplemental county and municipal aid account 
under sub. (9) (b).
SECTION  479.  27.01 (9) (bg) of the statutes is created to read:
27.01 (9) (bg)  Annual 4th grade pass.   1.  In this paragraph:
a.  XFourth grade pupil Y means a child receiving a 4th grade level of 
instruction in a school or a home-based private educational program, as defined in 
s. 115.001 (3g).
b.  XGuardian Y has the meaning given in s. 48.02 (8).
c.  XParentY has the meaning given in s. 48.02 (13).
2.  The parent or guardian of a child may apply for an annual vehicle 
admission receipt fee waiver by submitting an application to the department.  An 
application may not be submitted to a regional office of the department or to a 
person who is subject to an appointment or a contract as authorized under s. 29.024 
(6) (a) 2. to 4. but must be submitted directly to the main office of the department.  
An application shall be submitted on a form provided by the department and shall 
include all of the following information:
a.  The child [s name.
b.  The child [s date of birth.
c.  The name of the school the child is or will be attending or a certification 
that the child is in a home-based private educational program, as defined in s. 
115.001 (3g).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 599 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  479
d.  A certification that the child is, was, or will be a 4th grade pupil on the first 
day of January of the calendar year for which the waiver is issued.  This 
certification may be satisfied with dated report cards, dated and signed enrollment 
forms, a dated letter from the child [s school on official letterhead, or any other proof 
deemed acceptable by the department.
3.  Subject to subd. 4., the department shall provide to an individual whose 
application submitted under subd. 2. is approved an annual vehicle admission 
receipt fee waiver that is valid for the calendar year in which the waiver is issued.
4.  A parent or guardian may receive only one fee waiver under this paragraph 
in his or her lifetime.  If a parent or guardian receives a fee waiver under this 
paragraph, the department may not issue a fee waiver under this paragraph for any 
other member of the parent [s or guardian [s household.
5.  The department shall waive the fee, including the issuing fee, imposed 
under sub. (7) for an annual vehicle admission receipt for a single vehicle, except a 
motor bus, that has Wisconsin registration plates and that is operated by a person 
who holds a valid fee waiver issued under this paragraph.
SECTION  480.  27.01 (9) (bt) of the statutes is created to read:
27.01 (9) (bt)  Annual vehicle admission receipt fee waiver; tribes and bands.  
The department shall waive all fees imposed under sub. (7) for an annual vehicle 
admission receipt for any vehicle, except a motor bus, that has Wisconsin 
registration plates or a registration plate showing valid registration by a federally 
recognized American Indian tribe or band and that is owned by a person who 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 600 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  480
produces evidence that he or she is a member of a federally recognized American 
Indian tribe or band located in this state.
SECTION  481.  27.01 (10) (f) of the statutes is renumbered 27.01 (10) (f) 1.
SECTION  482.  27.01 (10) (f) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
27.01 (10) (f) 2.  The department shall waive the camping fee, including any 
additional fee under par. (g) or sub. (11) (c), for a person who applies for a 
reservation under sub. (11) and who produces evidence that he or she is a member 
of a federally recognized American Indian tribe or band located in this state.
SECTION  483.  27.01 (19) of the statutes is created to read:
27.01  (19)   CREDIT  CARD  HANDLING  FEE.  (a)  In this subsection, Xcredit card 
handling fee Y means the costs associated with collecting fees that are paid for by 
using a credit card.
(b)  In addition to any other fee imposed under this section, the department 
may collect a credit card handling fee to cover credit card transaction costs incurred 
in collecting fees for vehicle admission receipt and camping fees that are paid for by 
using a credit card.
(c)  If the department collects a handling fee under par. (b), it shall promulgate 
rules establishing the amount of the fee.
(d)  If the department has appointed an agent to collect a fee to which this 
subsection applies, the department may allow the agent to collect any applicable 
credit card handling fee.  The department may allow the agent to retain all or a 
portion of each credit card handling fee.
(e)  A credit card handling fee may not be more than the amount necessary to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 601 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  483
cover the costs of using a credit card to collect the fee to which the credit card 
handling fee applies.
(f)  Any fee collected under this subsection by the department shall be credited 
to the appropriation account under s. 20.370 (9) (hw).
SECTION  484.  29.063 (7) of the statutes is created to read:
29.063 (7)  The department shall provide financial assistance to cities, 
villages, towns, and counties; individuals; businesses; and nonprofit conservation 
organizations for the purchase of large metal containers in which hunters may 
dispose of deer carcasses.
SECTION  485.  29.193 (1m) (a) 2. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.193 (1m)  (a) 2. (intro.)  Has a permanent substantial loss of function in one 
or both arms or one or both hands and fails to meet the minimum standards of any 
one of the following standard tests, administered under the direction of a licensed 
physician, a licensed physician assistant, a licensed chiropractor, or a certified 
licensed advanced practice registered nurse prescriber:
SECTION  486.  29.193 (2) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.193 (2) (b) 2.  An applicant shall submit an application on a form prepared 
and furnished by the department, which shall include a written statement or report 
prepared and signed by a licensed physician, a licensed physician assistant, a 
licensed chiropractor, a licensed podiatrist, or a certified licensed advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber prepared no more than 6 months preceding the 
application and verifying that the applicant is physically disabled.
SECTION  487.  29.193 (2) (c) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 602 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  487
29.193 (2) (c) 3.  The department may issue a Class B permit to an applicant 
who is ineligible for a permit under subd. 1., 2. or 2m. or who is denied a permit 
under subd. 1., 2. or 2m. if, upon review and after considering the physical condition 
of the applicant and the recommendation of a licensed physician, a licensed 
physician assistant, a licensed chiropractor, a licensed podiatrist, or a certified 
licensed advanced practice registered nurse prescriber selected by the applicant 
from a list of licensed physicians, licensed physician assistants, licensed 
chiropractors, licensed podiatrists, and certified licensed advanced practice nurse 
prescribers registered nurses compiled by the department, the department finds 
that issuance of a permit complies with the intent of this subsection.  The use of this 
review procedure is discretionary with the department and all costs of the review 
procedure shall be paid by the applicant.
SECTION  488.  29.193 (2) (cd) 2. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.193 (2) (cd) 2. b.  The person has a permanent substantial loss of function 
in one or both arms and fails to meet the minimum standards of the standard upper 
extremity pinch test, the standard grip test, or the standard nine-hole peg test, 
administered under the direction of a licensed physician, a licensed physician 
assistant, a licensed chiropractor, or a certified licensed advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber.
SECTION  489.  29.193 (2) (cd) 2. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.193 (2) (cd) 2. c.  The person has a permanent substantial loss of function in 
one or both shoulders and fails to meet the minimum standards of the standard 
shoulder strength test, administered under the direction of a licensed physician, a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 603 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  489
licensed physician assistant, a licensed chiropractor, or a certified licensed 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber.
SECTION  490.  29.193 (2) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.193 (2) (e)  Review of decisions.   An applicant denied a permit under this 
subsection, except a permit under par. (c) 3., may obtain a review of that decision by 
a licensed physician, a licensed physician assistant, a licensed chiropractor, a 
licensed podiatrist, or a certified licensed advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber designated by the department and with an office located in the 
department district in which the applicant resides.  The department shall pay for 
the cost of a review under this paragraph unless the denied application on its face 
fails to meet the standards set forth in par. (c) 1. or 2.  A review under this 
paragraph is the only method of review of a decision to deny a permit under this 
subsection and is not subject to further review under ch. 227.
SECTION  491.  29.193 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.193 (3) (a)  Produces a certificate from a licensed physician, a licensed 
physician assistant, a licensed optometrist, or a certified licensed advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber stating that his or her sight is impaired to the degree 
that he or she cannot read ordinary newspaper print with or without corrective 
glasses.
SECTION  492.  29.219 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.219 (4)  H USBAND  AND WIFE  SPOUSES  RESIDENT  LICENSES .  A combined 
husband and wife spouses resident fishing license shall be issued subject to s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 604 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  492
29.024 by the department to residents applying for this license.  This license confers 
upon both husband and wife spouses the privileges of resident fishing licenses.
SECTION  493.  29.228 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.228 (5)  ANNUAL  FAMILY  FISHING  LICENSE .  The department shall issue a 
nonresident annual family fishing license, subject to s. 29.024, to any nonresident 
who applies for this license.  This license entitles the husband, wife spouses and any 
minor children to fish under this license.
SECTION  494.  29.228 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.228 (6)  FIFTEEN -DAY FAMILY  FISHING  LICENSE .  The department shall issue 
a nonresident 15-day family fishing license, subject to s. 29.024, to any nonresident 
who applies for this license.  This license entitles the husband, wife spouses and any 
minor children to fish under this license.
SECTION  495.  29.229 (2) (i) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.229 (2) (i)  Husband and wife Spouses fishing licenses.
SECTION  496.  29.2295 (2) (i) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.2295 (2) (i)  Husband and wife Spouses fishing licenses.
SECTION  497.  29.563 (2) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 1.  Small game:  $15.25 $35.25.
SECTION  498.  29.563 (2) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 2.  Small game issued to a resident senior citizen:  $6.25 $16.25.
SECTION  499.  29.563 (2) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 4.  Small game issued to persons who are under 18 years of age:  
$6.25 $16.25.
SECTION  500.  29.563 (2) (a) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 605 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  500
29.563 (2) (a) 5.  Deer:  $21.25 $41.25.
SECTION  501.  29.563 (2) (a) 5g. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 5g.  Deer issued to persons who are under 18 years of age:  
$17.25 $27.25.
SECTION  502.  29.563 (2) (a) 5m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 5m.  Elk: $46.25 $66.25.
SECTION  503.  29.563 (2) (a) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 6.  Class A bear:  $46.25 $86.25.
SECTION  504.  29.563 (2) (a) 8. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 8.  Archer:  $21.25 $41.25.
SECTION  505.  29.563 (2) (a) 8m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 8m.  Archer issued to persons who are under 18 years of age:  
$17.25 $27.25.
SECTION  506.  29.563 (2) (a) 8r. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 8r.  Crossbow:  $21.25 $41.25.
SECTION  507.  29.563 (2) (a) 8t. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 8t.  Crossbow issued to persons who are under 18 years of age:  
$17.25 $27.25.
SECTION  508.  29.563 (2) (a) 9. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (a) 9.  Wild turkey:  $12.25 $22.25.
SECTION  509.  29.563 (2) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (b) 1.  Annual small game: $87.25 $107.25.
SECTION  510.  29.563 (2) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (b) 2.  Five-day small game: $57.25 $67.25.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 606 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  511
SECTION  511.  29.563 (2) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (b) 3.  Deer: $197.25 $217.25.
SECTION  512.  29.563 (2) (b) 3m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (b) 3m.  Elk:  $248.25 $268.25.
SECTION  513.  29.563 (2) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (b) 4.  Class A bear:  $248.25 $288.25.
SECTION  514.  29.563 (2) (b) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (b) 6.  Archer: $197.25 $217.25.
SECTION  515.  29.563 (2) (b) 6m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (b) 6m.  Crossbow: $197.25 $217.25.
SECTION  516.  29.563 (2) (b) 7. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (b) 7.  Fur-bearing animal: $162.25 $182.25.
SECTION  517.  29.563 (2) (b) 8. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (b) 8.  Wild turkey: $62.25 $72.25.
SECTION  518.  29.563 (2) (c) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (c) 1.  Bonus deer issued for the purpose specified in s. 29.181 (2) (a) 
1.:  $11.25 $21.25.
SECTION  519.  29.563 (2) (c) 1m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (c) 1m.  Bonus deer issued for the purpose specified in s. 29.181 (2) 
(a) 2.:  $5.75 $15.75 or, if a fee is established by rule under s. 29.181 (4), the fee 
established by rule.
SECTION  520.  29.563 (2) (d) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (d) 1.  Bonus deer issued for the purpose specified in s. 29.181 (2) (a) 
1.:  $19.25 $29.25.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 607 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  521
SECTION  521.  29.563 (2) (d) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (d) 2.  Bonus deer issued for the purpose specified in s. 29.181 (2) (a) 
2.:  $5.75 $15.75 or, if a fee is established by rule under s. 29.181 (4), the fee 
established by rule.
SECTION  522.  29.563 (2) (e) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (e) 1.  Wild turkey:  $5 $12.75.
SECTION  523.  29.563 (2) (e) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (e) 2.  Pheasant:  $9.75 $15.75.
SECTION  524.  29.563 (2) (e) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (e) 3.  Waterfowl:  $6.75.  Beginning on July 10, 2021, the amount is 
$11.75 $13.75.
SECTION  525.  29.563 (2) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (f)  Resident authorizations.   Each additional wild turkey hunting 
authorization issued to a resident under s. 29.164 (4) (b):  $9.75 $19.75.
SECTION  526.  29.563 (2) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2) (g)  Nonresident authorizations.   Each additional wild turkey 
hunting authorization issued to a nonresident under s. 29.164 (4) (b):  $14.75 
$24.75.
SECTION  527.  29.563 (2g) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (2g)  REDUCED  FEES  FOR CERTAIN  ARCHER  AND CROSSBOW  LICENSES .  
(intro.)  Notwithstanding the fees under sub. (2) (a) 8. and 8r. and (b) 6. and 6m., the 
fee is $2.25 $12.25 for any of the following licenses:
SECTION  528.  29.563 (3) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (a) 1.  Annual:  $19.25 $29.25.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 608 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  529
SECTION  529.  29.563 (3) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (a) 2.  Annual fishing issued to a resident senior citizen:  $6.25 
$16.25.
SECTION  530.  29.563 (3) (a) 3. of the statutes is repealed and recreated to 
read:
29.563 (3) (a) 3.  Spouses:  $40.25.
SECTION  531.  29.563 (3) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (a) 4.  Annual fishing license issued to 16-year-olds and 17-year-
olds:  $6.25 $16.25.
SECTION  532.  29.563 (3) (a) 4m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (a) 4m.  One-day fishing:  $7.25 $17.25.
SECTION  533.  29.563 (3) (a) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (a) 5.  Two-day sports fishing:  $13.25 $23.25.
SECTION  534.  29.563 (3) (a) 5m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (a) 5m.  Two-day inland lake trout fishing:  $13.25 $23.25.
SECTION  535.  29.563 (3) (a) 7. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (a) 7.  Annual or temporary fishing issued to a disabled person 
under s. 29.193 (3) (a) or (b) or (3m):  $6.25 $16.25.
SECTION  536.  29.563 (3) (a) 7m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (a) 7m.  One-day group fishing issued under s. 29.193 (5): $24.25 
$34.25.
SECTION  537.  29.563 (3) (a) 9. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (a) 9.  Annual or temporary fishing issued to a disabled veteran 
under s. 29.193 (3) (c) or (3m):  $2.25 $12.25.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 609 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  538
SECTION  538.  29.563 (3) (a) 10. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (a) 10.  Sturgeon spearing:  $19.25 $34.25.
SECTION  539.  29.563 (3) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (b) 1.  Annual: $54.25 $64.25.
SECTION  540.  29.563 (3) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (b) 2.  Annual family: $69.25 $79.25.
SECTION  541.  29.563 (3) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (b) 3.  Fifteen-day: $32.25 $42.25.
SECTION  542.  29.563 (3) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (b) 4.  Fifteen-day family: $44.25 $54.25.
SECTION  543.  29.563 (3) (b) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (b) 5.  Four-day: $28.25 $38.25.
SECTION  544.  29.563 (3) (b) 5m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (b) 5m.  One-day: $14.25 $24.25.
SECTION  545.  29.563 (3) (b) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (b) 6.  Two-day sports:  $9.25 $19.25.
SECTION  546.  29.563 (3) (b) 7. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (b) 7.  Sturgeon spearing:  $64.25 $103.25.
SECTION  547.  29.563 (3) (c) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (c) 1.  Inland waters trout:  $9.75 $15.75.
SECTION  548.  29.563 (3) (c) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (c) 2.  Great Lakes trout and salmon:  $9.75 $16.75.
SECTION  549.  29.563 (3) (cm) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (cm) 1.  Sturgeon hook and line issued to a resident:  $19.75 $31.75.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 610 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  550
SECTION  550.  29.563 (3) (cm) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (3) (cm) 2.  Sturgeon hook and line issued to nonresident:  $49.75 
$79.75.
SECTION  551.  29.563 (4) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (a) 1.  Sports:  $57.25 $77.25 or a greater amount at the applicant [s 
option.
SECTION  552.  29.563 (4) (a) 1m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (a) 1m.  Sports issued to persons who are under 18 years of age:  
$32.25 $42.25 or a greater amount at the applicant [s option.
SECTION  553.  29.563 (4) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (a) 2.  Conservation patron:  $160.25 $200.25 or a greater amount at 
the applicant [s option.
SECTION  554.  29.563 (4) (a) 2m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (a) 2m.  Conservation patron issued to persons who are under 18 
years of age:  $70.25 $80.25 or a greater amount at the applicant [s option.
SECTION  555.  29.563 (4) (a) 2s. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (a) 2s.  Conservation patron issued under s. 29.235 (3m) to a 
recipient of the purple heart medal:  $9.25 $19.25 or a greater amount at the 
applicant [s option.
SECTION  556.  29.563 (4) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (a) 3.  Wolf harvesting:  $48.25 $88.25.
SECTION  557.  29.563 (4) (a) 3m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (a) 3m.  Annual disabled veteran recreation:  $7 $17.25.
SECTION  558.  29.563 (4) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 611 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  558
29.563 (4) (b) 1.  Sports: $292.25 $332.25 or a greater amount at the 
applicant [s option.
SECTION  559.  29.563 (4) (b) 1m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (b) 1m.  Sports issued to persons who are under 18 years of age:  
$33.25 $72.25 or a greater amount at the applicant [s option.
SECTION  560.  29.563 (4) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (b) 2.  Conservation patron: $615.25 $655.25 or a greater amount at 
the applicant [s option.
SECTION  561.  29.563 (4) (b) 2m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (b) 2m.  Conservation patron issued to persons who are under 18 
years of age:  $72.25 $112.25 or a greater amount at the applicant [s option.
SECTION  562.  29.563 (4) (b) 2s. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (b) 2s.  Conservation patron issued under s. 29.235 (3m) to a 
recipient of the purple heart medal:  $160.25 $170.25 or a greater amount at the 
applicant [s option.
SECTION  563.  29.563 (4) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (4) (b) 3.  Wolf harvesting:  $250.25 $290.25.
SECTION  564.  29.563 (5) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (5) (a) 1.  Guide:  $39.25 $79.25.
SECTION  565.  29.563 (5) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (5) (a) 2.  Sport trolling:  $100 $140.25.
SECTION  566.  29.563 (5) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (5) (b) 1.  Guide:  $99.25 $139.25.
SECTION  567.  29.563 (5) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 612 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  567
29.563 (5) (b) 2.  Lake Michigan and Green Bay sport trolling:  $400 $440.
SECTION  568.  29.563 (5) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (5) (b) 3.  Lake Superior sport trolling:  $400 $440.
SECTION  569.  29.563 (6) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (a) 1.  Trapping:  $19.25 $39.25.
SECTION  570.  29.563 (6) (a) 1m. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (a) 1m.  Trapping issued to persons who are under 16 years of age:  
$9.25 $19.25.
SECTION  571.  29.563 (6) (a) 1s. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (a) 1s.  Mentored trapping license: $9.25 $19.25.
SECTION  572.  29.563 (6) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (a) 2.  Class A fur dealer:  $25 $45.
SECTION  573.  29.563 (6) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (a) 3.  Class B fur dealer:  $10 $30.
SECTION  574.  29.563 (6) (am) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (am)  Nonresident license.   Trapping:  $149.25 $169.25.
SECTION  575.  29.563 (6) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (b) 1.  Itinerant fur buyer:  $200 $220.
SECTION  576.  29.563 (6) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (b) 2.  Fur dresser or dyer:  $25 $45.
SECTION  577.  29.563 (6) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (b) 3.  Fur auctioneer:  $250 $270.
SECTION  578.  29.563 (6) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (c)  Resident permit.   Taxidermist:  $50 $70.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 613 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  579
SECTION  579.  29.563 (6) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (6) (d)  Nonresident permit.   Taxidermist:  $100 $120.
SECTION  580.  29.563 (7) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (a) 1.  Outlying waters:  $899.25 $919.25 for the first boat and 
$899.25 $919.25 for each additional boat that is listed on a license issued under s. 
29.519 (1m).
SECTION  581.  29.563 (7) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (a) 2.  Outlying waters without boat:  $899.25 $919.25.
SECTION  582.  29.563 (7) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (a) 3.  Rough fish harvest under contract under s. 29.417 or 29.421:  
$25 $35 for the first licensed boat and $25 $35 for each additional licensed boat.
SECTION  583.  29.563 (7) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (a) 4.  Rough fish harvest under contract under s. 29.417 or 29.421 
without a boat:  $25 $35.
SECTION  584.  29.563 (7) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (b) 1.  Outlying waters:  $6,499.25 $6,519.25 for the first boat and 
$6,499.25 $6,519.25 for each additional boat that is listed on a license issued under 
s. 29.519 (1m).
SECTION  585.  29.563 (7) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (b) 2.  Outlying waters without boat:  $6,499.25 $6,519.25.
SECTION  586.  29.563 (7) (c) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 1.  Outlying waters license transfers under s. 29.519 (2) (d):  $50 
$60.
SECTION  587.  29.563 (7) (c) 3. a. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 614 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  587
29.563 (7) (c) 3. a.  Seine nets:  $20 $30 for the first 500 lineal feet of net, $10 
$20 for the 2nd 500 lineal feet and $2 $12 for each additional 100 lineal feet or 
fraction thereof, plus 25 cents for each tag for each 500 lineal feet of net or fraction 
thereof.
SECTION  588.  29.563 (7) (c) 3. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 3. b.  Gill nets:  $10 $20 for the first 2,000 lineal feet of net and $1 
$11 for each additional 100 lineal feet or fraction thereof, plus 25 cents for each tag 
for each 2,000 lineal feet of net or fraction thereof.
SECTION  589.  29.563 (7) (c) 3. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 3. c.  Bait nets:  $20 $30, plus the tag for each bait net is 25 cents 
each.
SECTION  590.  29.563 (7) (c) 3. d. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 3. d.  Buffalo and frame nets:  $10 $20, plus the tag for each 
buffalo or frame net is 50 cents each.
SECTION  591.  29.563 (7) (c) 3. e. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 3. e.  Slat nets:  $20 $30, plus the tag for each slat net is 50 cents 
each, not to exceed 50 slat nets per licensee.
SECTION  592.  29.563 (7) (c) 3. f. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 3. f.  Trammel nets:  $20 $30 for each net, not to exceed 300 lineal 
feet, including one tag.
SECTION  593.  29.563 (7) (c) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 4.  Inland waters set or bank pole:  $2.25 $12.25 including 5 tags, 
one for each set or bank pole allowed.
SECTION  594.  29.563 (7) (c) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 615 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  594
29.563 (7) (c) 5.  Inland waters setline:  $10 $20, plus 25 cents for the tag for 
each setline.
SECTION  595.  29.563 (7) (c) 5g. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 5g.  Shovelnose sturgeon permit:  $50 $60.
SECTION  596.  29.563 (7) (c) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 6.  Wholesale fish dealer:  $100 $110.
SECTION  597.  29.563 (7) (c) 7. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 7.  Clam buyer:  $300 $310.
SECTION  598.  29.563 (7) (c) 10. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (7) (c) 10.  Clam sheller:  $30 $40.
SECTION  599.  29.563 (8) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (8) (a)  Class A bait dealer:  $49.25 $59.25.
SECTION  600.  29.563 (8) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (8) (b)  Class B bait dealer:  $9.25 $19.25.
SECTION  601.  29.563 (10) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (a) 1.  Wild rice harvest:  $7.50 $17.50.
SECTION  602.  29.563 (10) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (a) 3.  Class A wild rice dealer:  $15 $25.
SECTION  603.  29.563 (10) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (a) 4.  Class B wild rice dealer: $50 $60.
SECTION  604.  29.563 (10) (a) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (a) 5.  Class C wild rice dealer:  $100 $110.
SECTION  605.  29.563 (10) (a) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (a) 6.  Class D wild rice dealer:  $150 $160.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 616 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  606
SECTION  606.  29.563 (10) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (b) 1.  Wild ginseng harvest issued to a resident:  $15 $25.
SECTION  607.  29.563 (10) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (b) 2.  Wild ginseng harvest issued to a nonresident:  $30 $40.
SECTION  608.  29.563 (10) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (b) 3.  Class A resident wild ginseng dealer:  $100 $110.
SECTION  609.  29.563 (10) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (b) 4.  Class B resident wild ginseng dealer:  $500 $510.
SECTION  610.  29.563 (10) (b) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (b) 5.  Class C resident wild ginseng dealer:  $1,000 $1,010.
SECTION  611.  29.563 (10) (b) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (10) (b) 6.  Nonresident wild ginseng dealer:  $1,000 $1,010.
SECTION  612.  29.563 (11) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
29.563 (11) (a) 2.  Endangered species:  $100 $110.
SECTION  613.  29.607 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
29.607 (3)  LICENSE  REQUIRED ; EXCEPTIONS ; WILD  RICE IDENTIFICATION  CARD .  
Every person over the age of 16 and under the age of 65 shall obtain the appropriate 
wild rice license to harvest or deal in wild rice but no license to harvest is required 
of the members of the immediate family of a licensee or of a recipient of old-age 
assistance or members of their immediate families.  The department, subject to s. 
29.024 (2g) and (2r), shall issue a wild rice identification card to each member of a 
licensee[s immediate family, to a recipient of old-age assistance and to each member 
of the recipient [s family.  The term Ximmediate family Y includes husband and wife 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 617 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  613
spouses and minor children having their abode and domicile with the parent or 
legal guardian.
SECTION  614.  30.92 (2) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  615.  30.92 (3) (b) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
30.92 (3) (b) 5.  Projects underway in a state of readiness.
SECTION  616.  30.92 (4) (b) 2. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
30.92 (4) (b) 2. a.  The department may cost-share, with the approval of the 
commission, with a qualified lake association or an affected governmental unit, 
including itself, at a rate of up to 50 percent of any construction, acquisition, 
rehabilitation, feasibility study or other project costs or any combination of these 
costs, for the recreational boating project if the costs are the type that qualify for 
funding under this section.
SECTION  617.  30.92 (4) (b) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  618.  30.92 (4) (b) 6m. of the statutes is amended to read:
30.92 (4) (b) 6m.  Notwithstanding subd. 6., the department, with the 
approval of the commission, may reallocate for expenditure for recreational boating 
aids without complying with the percentages under subd. 6. any state funds that 
are not encumbered for expenditure for a fiscal year before the first day of the 4th 
3rd quarter of that fiscal year.
SECTION  619.  32.02 (11) of the statutes is amended to read:
32.02 (11)  Any housing authority created under ss. 66.1201 to 66.1211; 
redevelopment authority created under s. 66.1333; community development 
authority created under s. 66.1335; local cultural arts district created under subch. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 618 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  619
V of ch. 229, subject to s. 229.844 (4) (c); or local exposition district created under 
subch. II of ch. 229; or transit authority created under s. 66.1039.
SECTION  620.  32.05 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
32.05 (1) (a)  Except as provided under par. (b), a county board of supervisors 
or a county highway committee when so authorized by the county board of 
supervisors, a city council, a village board, a town board, a sewerage commission 
governing a metropolitan sewerage district created by ss. 200.05 or 200.21 to 
200.65, the secretary of transportation, a commission created by contract under s. 
66.0301, a joint local water authority created by contract under s. 66.0823, a transit 
authority created under s. 66.1039, a housing authority under ss. 66.1201 to 
66.1211, a local exposition district created under subch. II of ch. 229, a local cultural 
arts district created under subch. V of ch. 229, a redevelopment authority under s. 
66.1333 or a community development authority under s. 66.1335 shall make an 
order providing for the laying out, relocation and improvement of the public 
highway, street, alley, storm and sanitary sewers, watercourses, water transmission 
and distribution facilities, mass transit facilities, airport, or other transportation 
facilities, gas or leachate extraction systems to remedy environmental pollution 
from a solid waste disposal facility, housing project, redevelopment project, cultural 
arts facilities, exposition center or exposition center facilities which shall be known 
as the relocation order.  This order shall include a map or plat showing the old and 
new locations and the lands and interests required.  A copy of the order shall, 
within 20 days after its issue, be filed with the county clerk of the county wherein 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 619 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  620
the lands are located or, in lieu of filing a copy of the order, a plat may be filed or 
recorded in accordance with s. 84.095.
SECTION  621.  32.07 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
32.07 (2)  The petitioner shall determine necessity if application is by the state 
or any commission, department, board or other branch of state government or by a 
city, village, town, county, school district, board, commission, public officer, 
commission created by contract under s. 66.0301, joint local water authority under 
s. 66.0823, transit authority created under s. 66.1039, redevelopment authority 
created under s. 66.1333, local exposition district created under subch. II of ch. 229, 
local cultural arts district created under subch. V of ch. 229, housing authority 
created under ss. 66.1201 to 66.1211 or for the right-of-way of a railroad up to 100 
feet in width, for a telegraph, telephone or other electric line, for the right-of-way for 
a gas pipeline, main or service or for easements for the construction of any elevated 
structure or subway for railroad purposes.
SECTION  622.  36.09 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
36.09 (1) (e)  Subject to par. (em), the board shall appoint a president of the 
system; a chancellor for each institution; a dean for each college campus; the state 
geologist; the director of the laboratory of hygiene; the director of the psychiatric 
institute; the state cartographer; and the requisite number of officers, other than 
the vice presidents, associate vice presidents, and assistant vice presidents of the 
system; faculty; academic staff; and other employees and fix the salaries, subject to 
the limitations under par. (j) and s. 230.12 (3) (e), the duties and the term of office 
for each.  The board shall fix the salaries, subject to the limitations under par. (j) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 620 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  622
and s. 230.12 (3) (e), and the duties for each chancellor, vice president, associate 
vice president, and assistant vice president of the system.  No sectarian or partisan 
tests or any tests based upon race, religion, national origin, or sex, sexual 
orientation, as defined in s. 111.32 (13m), gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 
(7j), or gender identity, as defined in s. 111.32 (7k), shall ever be allowed or 
exercised in the appointment of the employees of the system.
SECTION  623.  36.27 (2) (ar) of the statutes is created to read:
36.27 (2) (ar)  A student is entitled to the exemption under par. (a) if all of the 
following apply:
1.  The student is a member of a federally recognized American Indian tribe or 
band in this state or is a member of a federally recognized tribe in Minnesota, 
Illinois, Iowa, or Michigan.
2.  The student has resided in Wisconsin, Minnesota, Illinois, Iowa, or 
Michigan, or in any combination of these states, for at least 12 months immediately 
preceding the beginning of any semester or session in which the student enrolls in 
an institution.
SECTION  624.  36.27 (2) (b) 5. of the statutes is created to read:
36.27 (2) (b) 5.  A person who is a resident of and living in this state at the time 
of registering at an institution and who is a veteran described under s. 45.01 (12) 
(fm) is entitled to the exemption under par. (a).
SECTION  625.  36.27 (2) (cr) of the statutes is created to read:
36.27 (2) (cr)  A person who is not a citizen of the United States is entitled to 
the exemption under par. (a) if that person meets all of the following requirements:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 621 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  625
1.  The person graduated from a high school in this state or received a 
declaration of equivalency of high school graduation from this state.
2.  The person was continuously present in this state for at least 3 years 
following the first day of attending a high school in this state or immediately 
preceding receipt of a declaration of equivalency of high school graduation.
3.  The person enrolls in an institution and provides that institution with proof 
that the person has filed or will file an application for lawful permanent resident 
status with the U.S. citizenship and immigration services as soon as the person is 
eligible to do so.
SECTION  626.  36.27 (3g) of the statutes is created to read:
36.27 (3g)  FEE REMISSION  FOR CERTAIN  TRIBAL  MEMBERS .  (a)  Subject to pars. 
(b) and (c), the board shall grant full remission of academic fees and segregated fees 
to any student enrolled in the system who is all of the following:
1.  A bona fide resident of this state, as determined under sub. (2).
2.  An enrolled member of a federally recognized American Indian tribe in this 
state.
(b)  A student is eligible for remission of fees under par. (a) for 128 credits or 8 
semesters, whichever is longer.
(c)  A student is eligible for remission of fees under par. (a) only if the student 
maintains a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0.
SECTION  627.  36.27 (3p) (a) 1r. g. of the statutes is created to read:
36.27 (3p) (a) 1r. g.  The person meets the criteria described under s. 45.01 
(12) (fm).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 622 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  628
SECTION  628.  36.27 (3q) of the statutes is created to read:
36.27 (3q)  FEE REMISSION  FOR STUDENT  TEACHERS .  (a)  In this subsection, 
Xstudent teacher Y means an individual enrolled in the system who is a bona fide 
resident of this state, as determined under sub. (2), and who is participating in the 
student teaching component of an educator preparatory program approved by the 
state superintendent of public instruction under s. 115.28 (7) (a).
(b)  The board shall grant full remission of academic fees to student teachers 
during their semester of student teaching.
SECTION  629.  36.325 of the statutes is created to read:
36.325   Voter identification.   Each institution shall issue student 
identification cards that qualify as identification under s. 5.02 (6m) (f).
SECTION  630.  36.47 of the statutes is created to read:
36.47   Parkinson [s disease registry.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XDepartment Y means the Population Health Institute, or its successor, at 
the University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine and Public Health.
(a)  XHealth care facility Y has the meaning given in s. 155.01 (6).
(b)  XHealth care provider Y means a physician, surgeon, physician assistant, or 
nurse practitioner.
(c)  XParkinsonism Y means a condition that causes a combination of the 
movement abnormalities seen in Parkinson [s disease, including tremor at rest, slow 
movements, muscle rigidity, stooped posture, or unsteady or shuffling gait, which 
often overlap with and can evolve from what appears to be Parkinson [s disease.  
XParkinsonism Y includes multiple system atrophy, dementia with Lewy bodies, 
corticobasal degeneration, and progressive supranuclear palsy.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 623 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  630
(d)  XParkinson [s disease Y means a chronic and progressive neurologic disorder 
resulting from deficiency of the neurotransmitter dopamine as the consequence of 
specific degenerative changes in the basal ganglia, which is characterized by tremor 
at rest, slow movements, muscle rigidity, stooped posture, and unsteady or 
shuffling gait.
(2)  CONSULTATION  BY THE DEPARTMENT  OF HEALTH  SERVICES .  The 
department of health services may do all of the following:
(a)  Assist the department in the establishment and maintenance of a 
Parkinson [s disease registry, as provided under sub. (3).
(b)  Make recommendations to the department on the data to be collected in 
the Parkinson [s disease registry.
(c)  Advise the department on the Parkinson [s disease registry.
(d)  Make recommendations to the department on the best practices for the 
establishment of the Parkinson [s disease registry under sub. (3).
(3)  PARKINSON [S DISEASE  REGISTRY .  (a)  By no later than the first day of the 
19th month beginning after the effective date of this paragraph .... [LRB inserts 
date], the department shall, after consultation with the department of health 
services, establish and maintain a Parkinson [s disease registry for the collection, 
storage, and dissemination of information about the incidence and prevalence of 
Parkinson [s disease and parkinsonisms in this state.
(b)  The department shall collect and store in the Parkinson [s disease registry 
data reported under s. 255.18 (2) by health care providers and health care facilities.
(c)  The department shall prescribe the format for reporting information to the 
department under s. 255.18 (2).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 624 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  630
(d)  The department shall create, and regularly review and revise, a list of 
information that health care providers and health care facilities must report, 
subject to s. 255.18 (2) (d), to the department under s. 255.18 (2).  The list shall 
include the incident of a patient [s Parkinson [s disease or parkinsonism; necessary 
triggering diagnostic conditions, consistent with the latest version of the 
International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems; 
resulting case data on issues including diagnosis, treatment, and survival; and 
patient demographic information, including age, gender, and race.  The Board of 
Regents of the University of Wisconsin System may promulgate rules to implement 
and administer this paragraph.
(e)  The University of Wisconsin-Madison may enter into agreements in order 
for the department to securely and confidentially receive information from data 
reporting entities and their associated electronic medical records vendors related to 
Parkinson [s disease testing, diagnosis, and treatment.
(f) 1.  The University of Wisconsin-Madison may enter into agreements in 
order for the department to disclose data collected in the Parkinson [s disease 
registry to another state [s Parkinson [s disease registry, a federal Parkinson [s 
disease control agency, a local health officer, or a researcher who proposes to 
conduct research on Parkinson [s disease.
2.  Before disclosing data containing confidential information to an entity 
under subd. 1., the University of Wisconsin-Madison shall require the entity to 
specify the purpose for the requested disclosure, agree in writing to maintain the 
confidentiality of the information and, if the entity is a researcher, provide all of the 
following to the University of Wisconsin-Madison:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 625 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  630
a.  A written protocol to perform research.
b.  Documentation of approval of the research protocol by an institutional 
review board of a domestic institution that has a federalwide assurance approved by 
the office for human research protections of the federal department of health and 
human services.
c.  Documentation that demonstrates to the University of Wisconsin-
Madison [s satisfaction that the researcher has established procedures and has the 
capability to maintain the confidentiality of the information.
(4)  WEBSITE .  (a)  By no later than the first day of the 19th month beginning 
after the effective date of this paragraph .... [LRB inserts date], the department 
shall establish and maintain a public website dedicated to the Parkinson [s disease 
registry under sub. (3).  The department shall include on the website all of the 
following:
1.  Downloadable annual reports on the incidence and prevalence of 
Parkinson [s disease in this state.
2.  Relevant data, as determined by the department, about Parkinson [s 
disease and parkinsonisms for the 5-year period prior to the effective date of this 
subdivision .... [LRB inserts date].
3.  Other helpful resources about Parkinson [s disease, as determined by the 
department.
(b)  By no later than January 1 of each year, the department shall update the 
information specified in par. (a) 1. on the website maintained under par. (a).
(c)  The department shall publish on its website notice of the reporting 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 626 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  630
requirement under s. 255.18 no fewer than 90 days before the reporting 
requirement takes effect.
(5)  CONFIDENTIALITY .  (a)  Any information reported to the department under 
s. 255.18 (2) that could identify an individual who is the subject of the report or a 
health care provider submitting the report is confidential.
(b)  To ensure privacy, the department shall use a coding system for the data 
stored in the Parkinson [s disease registry that removes any identifying information 
about an individual who is the subject of a report under s. 255.18.
(c) 1.  If the University of Wisconsin-Madison or the department discloses 
confidential information as authorized under sub. (3) (f), the University of 
Wisconsin-Madison or department may include in the disclosure only the 
information necessary for the purpose specified under sub. (3) (f) 2.
2.  A person who obtains confidential information from the University of 
Wisconsin-Madison or the department under sub. (3) (f) may use the information 
only for the purpose specified under sub. (3) (f) 2. and may not redisclose the 
information.
(d)  The department shall maintain an accurate record of all persons given 
access to confidential information under this section.  The record shall include all of 
the following:
1.  The name of the person authorizing access.
2.  The title, address, and organizational affiliation of any person given access.
3.  The dates of access.
4.  The specific purpose for which the information is to be used.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 627 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  630
(e)  The department shall make the records maintained under par. (d) 
available for public inspection during the department [s normal operating hours.
(f)  Confidential information under this section is not available for subpoena 
and may not be disclosed, discoverable, or compelled to be produced in any civil, 
criminal, administrative, or other proceeding.  Confidential information under this 
section is not admissible as evidence in any civil, criminal, administrative, or other 
tribunal or court for any reason.
SECTION  631.  36.61 (1) (ab) of the statutes is created to read:
36.61 (1) (ab)  XBehavioral health provider Y means an individual who, under 
ch. 457, is certified as a social worker or licensed as a clinical social worker, a 
marriage and family therapist, or a professional counselor.
SECTION  632.  36.61 (1) (ae) of the statutes is created to read:
36.61 (1) (ae)  XDental assistant Y means an individual who holds a certified 
dental assistant credential issued by a national credentialing organization.
SECTION  633.  36.61 (1) (af) of the statutes is created to read:
36.61 (1) (af)  XDental auxiliary Y means an expanded function dental 
auxiliary holding a certification under s. 447.04 (3).
SECTION  634.  36.61 (1) (am) of the statutes is amended to read:
36.61 (1) (am)  XEligible practice area Y has the meaning given in s. 36.60 (1) 
(ag), except that, with respect to a dental hygienist, dental assistant, dental 
auxiliary, or dental therapist, Xeligible practice area Y means a dental health 
shortage area or a free or charitable clinic.
SECTION  635.  36.61 (1) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 36.61 (1) (b) (intro.) 
and amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 628 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  635
36.61 (1) (b) (intro.)  XHealth care provider Y means  a  any of the following:
1.  A dental therapist,.
2.  A dental hygienist,.
3.  A physician assistant,.
4.  A nurse-midwife, or.
5.  A nurse practitioner.
SECTION  636.  36.61 (1) (b) 6., 7., 8., 9. and 10. of the statutes are created to 
read:
36.61 (1) (b) 6.  A medical assistant.
7.  A dental assistant.
8.  A dental auxiliary.
9.  A behavioral health provider.
10.  A substance abuse treatment provider.
SECTION  637.  36.61 (1) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
36.61 (1) (c)  XMedical assistant Y means an individual who has received a 
medical assistant technical diploma from a technical college under ch. 38 or who 
has successfully completed the national certification examination for medical 
assistants.
SECTION  638.  36.61 (1) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
36.61 (1) (f)  XSubstance abuse treatment provider Y means an individual who 
is certified as a substance abuse counselor, clinical supervisor, or prevention 
specialist under s. 440.88.
SECTION  639 .  36.61 (2) of the statutes is renumbered 36.61 (2) (a) and 
amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 629 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  639
36.61 (2) (a)  The Except as provided in par. (b), the board may repay, on behalf 
of a health care provider, up to $25,000 in educational loans obtained by the health 
care provider from a public or private lending institution for education related to 
the health care provider [s field of practice, as determined by the board with the 
advice of the council.
SECTION  640.  36.61 (2) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
36.61 (2) (b)  For a health care provider that is a medical assistant, the board [s 
repayment under par. (a) may not exceed $12,500.
SECTION  641.  36.61 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
36.61 (3) (a)  The board shall enter into a written agreement with the health 
care provider.  In the agreement, the health care provider shall agree to practice at 
least 32 clinic hours per week for 3 years in one or more eligible practice areas in 
this state or in a rural area, except that a health care provider in the expanded loan 
assistance program under sub. (8) who is not a dental therapist, dental assistant, 
dental auxiliary, or dental hygienist may only agree to practice at a public or private 
nonprofit entity in a health professional shortage area.
SECTION  642 .  36.61 (4) of the statutes is renumbered 36.61 (4) (am), and 
36.61 (4) (am) (intro.), as renumbered, is amended to read:
36.61 (4) (am) (intro.)  Principal Except as provided in par. (bm), principal and 
interest due on loans, exclusive of any penalties, may be repaid by the board at the 
following rate:
SECTION  643.  36.61 (4) (bm) of the statutes is created to read:
36.61 (4) (bm)  For a health care provider that is a medical assistant, principal 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 630 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  643
and interest due on loans, exclusive of any penalties, may be repaid by the board at 
the following rate:
1.  Up to 40 percent of the principal of the loan or $5,000, whichever is less, 
during the first year of participation in the program under this section.
2.  Up to an additional 40 percent of the principal of the loan or $5,000, 
whichever is less, during the 2nd year of participation in the program under this 
section.
3.  Up to an additional 20 percent of the principal of the loan or $2,500, 
whichever is less, during the 3rd year of participation in the program under this 
section.
SECTION  644.  36.61 (5) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
36.61 (5) (b) 1.  The degree to which there is an extremely high need for 
medical care in the eligible practice area, health professional shortage area, or rural 
area in which an eligible applicant who is not a dental therapist, dental assistant, 
dental auxiliary, or dental hygienist desires to practice and the degree to which 
there is an extremely high need for dental care in the dental health shortage area or 
rural area in which an eligible applicant who is a dental therapist, dental assistant, 
dental auxiliary, or dental hygienist desires to practice.
SECTION  645.  36.61 (8) (c) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
36.61 (8) (c) 3.  Practice at a public or private nonprofit entity in a health 
professional shortage area, if the health care provider is not a dental therapist, 
dental assistant, dental auxiliary, or dental hygienist, or in a dental health 
shortage area, if the health care provider is a dental therapist, dental assistant, 
dental auxiliary, or dental hygienist.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 631 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  646
SECTION  646.  36.62 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
36.62 (2)  Advise the board on the amount, up to $25,000 for health care 
providers other than medical assistants and up to $12,500 for medical assistants, to 
be repaid on behalf of each health care provider who participates in the health care 
provider loan assistance program under s. 36.61.
SECTION  647.  38.04 (25) of the statutes is created to read:
38.04 (25)  ADOPTION  OF ARTIFICIAL  INTELLIGENCE .  From the appropriation 
under s. 20.292 (1) (f), the board may award grants to district boards to support the 
district boards with the adoption and use of artificial intelligence in areas including 
the following:
(a)  Educator recruitment, retention, and upskilling.
(b)  Curriculum and resource development to meet employer demand.
(c)  Stackable credential development.
(d)  Infrastructure development.
SECTION  648.  38.16 (3) (a) 2w. of the statutes is amended to read:
38.16 (3) (a) 2w.  XRevenue Y means the sum of the tax levy, property tax relief 
aid under subs. (4) and (5), and payments received under s. ss. 79.096, 79.0965, and 
79.098, not including a payment received under s. 79.096 (3), 79.0965 (3), or 79.098 
(3) for a tax incremental district that has been terminated.
SECTION  649.  38.22 (6) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
38.22 (6) (e)  Any person who is not a citizen of the United States if that person 
meets all of the following requirements:
1.  The person graduated from a high school in this state or received a 
declaration of equivalency of high school graduation from this state.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 632 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  649
2.  The person was continuously present in this state for at least 3 years 
following the first day of attending a high school in this state or immediately 
preceding receipt of a declaration of equivalency of high school graduation.
3.  The person enrolls in a district school and provides the district board with 
proof that the person has filed or will file an application for lawful permanent 
resident status with the U.S. citizenship and immigration services as soon as the 
person is eligible to do so.
SECTION  650.  38.22 (6) (g) of the statutes is created to read:
38.22 (6) (g)  Any person who meets all of the following requirements:
1.  The person is a member of a federally recognized American Indian tribe or 
band in this state or is a member of a federally recognized tribe in Minnesota, 
Illinois, Iowa, or Michigan.
2.  The person has resided in Wisconsin, Minnesota, Illinois, Iowa, or 
Michigan, or in any combination of these states, for at least 12 months immediately 
preceding the beginning of any semester or session in which the person enrolls in a 
district school.
SECTION  651.  38.24 (5m) of the statutes is created to read:
38.24 (5m)   FEE REMISSION  FOR CERTAIN  TRIBAL  MEMBERS .  (a)  Subject to pars. 
(b) and (c), the district board shall grant full remission of program fees under sub. 
(1m) (a) to (c) and incidental fees under s. 38.14 (9) to any student enrolled in a 
district school who is all of the following:
1.  A resident of this state, as determined according to the procedures 
established under s. 38.22 (4) (a).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 633 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  651
2.  An enrolled member of a federally recognized American Indian tribe in this 
state.
(b)  A student is eligible for remission of fees under par. (a) for 128 credits or 8 
semesters, whichever is longer.
(c)  A student is eligible for remission of fees under par. (a) only if the student 
maintains a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0.
SECTION  652.  38.24 (5r) of the statutes is created to read:
38.24 (5r)  FEE REMISSION  FOR STUDENT  TEACHERS .  (a)  In this subsection, 
Xstudent teacher Y means an individual enrolled in a district school who is a resident 
of this state, as determined according to the procedures established under s. 38.22 
(4) (a), and who is participating in the student teaching component of an educator 
preparatory program approved by the state superintendent of public instruction 
under s. 115.28 (7) (a).
(b)  The district board shall grant full remission of program fees under sub. 
(1m) (a) to (c) to student teachers during their semester or session of student 
teaching.
SECTION  653.  38.24 (8) (a) 1r. g. of the statutes is created to read:
38.24 (8) (a) 1r. g.  The person meets the criteria described under s. 45.01 (12) 
(fm).
SECTION  654.  38.43 of the statutes is created to read:
38.43   Voter identification.   Each technical college shall issue student 
identification cards that qualify as identification under s. 5.02 (6m) (f).
SECTION  655.  39.395 (title) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 634 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  655
39.395   (title)  Financial assistance for educators in nursing, allied 
health, behavioral health, and dentistry.
SECTION  656.  39.395 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 39.395 (1) (intro.) and 
amended to read:
39.395 (1) (intro.)  In this section, Xinstitution:
(e)  XInstitution of higher education Y means an institution or college campus 
within the University of Wisconsin System, a technical college within the technical 
college system, or a private, nonprofit institution of higher education located in this 
state.
SECTION  657.  39.395 (1) (a) to (e) of the statutes are created to read:
39.395 (1) (a)  XAllied health professional Y has the meaning given in s. 146.615 
(1) (ag).
(b)  XBehavioral health provider Y has the meaning given in s. 257.01 (1).
(c)  XDental assistant Y means an individual who holds a certified dental 
assistant credential issued by a national credentialing organization.
(d)  XDentistry professional Y means a dental assistant, a dental hygienist 
licensed under s. 447.04 (2), a dental therapist licensed under s. 447.04 (1m), or a 
dentist as defined in s. 447.01 (7).
(e)  XFacultyY means individuals that are employed as faculty in either a full-
time or a part-time capacity at an institution of higher education.
SECTION  658.  39.395 (2) (am) of the statutes is created to read:
39.395 (2) (am)  Fellowships for students who enroll in an institution of higher 
education [s masters or doctoral program that trains students for practice as an 
allied health professional, a behavioral health provider, or a dentistry professional.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 635 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  659
SECTION  659.  39.395 (2) (bm) of the statutes is created to read:
39.395 (2) (bm)  Postdoctoral fellowships to recruit institution of higher 
education faculty for programs that train students to be allied health professionals, 
behavioral health providers, or dentistry professionals.
SECTION  660.  39.395 (2) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
39.395 (2) (cm)  Educational loan repayment assistance to recruit and retain 
institution of higher education faculty for programs that train students to be allied 
health professionals, behavioral health providers, or dentistry professionals.
SECTION  661.  39.395 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
39.395 (3)  The program established under sub. (2) shall require individuals 
who receive fellowships under sub. (2) (a) or, (am), (b), or (bm) or assistance under 
sub. (2) (c) or (cm) to make a commitment to teach for at least 3 consecutive years in 
a nursing program at an institution of higher education or in an institution of 
higher education [s program that trains students to be allied health professionals, 
behavioral health providers, or dentistry professionals.
SECTION  662.  39.465 (1) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
39.465 (1) (f)  XStudentY means an individual enrolled in the school or an 
individual who is a dental general practice resident at the school.
SECTION  663.  39.465 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
39.465 (2)  SCHOLARSHIPS .  In consultation with the department of health 
services, the board shall establish a program for awarding to no more than 15 
students at the school an annual scholarship, including a stipend, equal to $30,000 
for each year of a student [s enrollment or dental general practice residency but not 
exceeding 4 years.  The board shall pay the scholarships from the appropriation 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 636 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  663
account under s. 20.235 (1) (dg).  From the appropriation account under s. 20.235 
(1) (dg), the board shall also provide the school $350,000 annually for the 
development and operation of programs to support the recruitment and training of 
students in rural dentistry.
SECTION  664.  39.86 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
39.86 (5)  FEES.  The board may establish reasonable fees to be imposed in 
connection with any function or service provided by the board under this section, 
including fees for authorizing eligible institutions for the offering of distance 
education programs.  All fees collected by the board shall be credited to the 
appropriation account under s. 20.235 (3) (g) 20.505 (4) (g).
SECTION  665.  40.02 (8) (b) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  666.  40.02 (17) (o) of the statutes is created to read:
40.02 (17) (o)  Notwithstanding par. (d), each participant who is a marshal of 
the supreme court and who is classified as a protective occupation participant shall 
be granted creditable service as a protective occupation participant for all covered 
service while a marshal of the supreme court that was earned on or after the 
effective date of this paragraph .... [LRB inserts date], but may not be granted 
creditable service as a protective occupation participant for any covered service as 
an employee of the supreme court that was not as a protective occupation 
participant and that was earned before the effective date of this paragraph .... [LRB 
inserts date].
SECTION  667.  40.02 (21d) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.02 (21d)  (intro.)  XDomestic partnership Y means a relationship between 2 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 637 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  667
individuals, who submitted an affidavit of domestic partnership to the department 
before September 23, 2017, that satisfies all of the following:
SECTION  668.  40.02 (28) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.02 (28)  XEmployer Y means the state, including each state agency, any 
county, city, village, town, school district, other governmental unit or 
instrumentality of 2 or more units of government now existing or hereafter created 
within the state, any federated public library system established under s. 43.19 
whose territory lies within a single county with a population of 750,000 or more, a 
local exposition district created under subch. II of ch. 229, a transit authority 
created under s. 66.1039, and a long-term care district created under s. 46.2895, 
except as provided under ss. 40.51 (7) and 40.61 (3).  XEmployer Y does not include a 
local cultural arts district created under subch. V of ch. 229.  Each employer shall be 
a separate legal jurisdiction for OASDHI purposes.
SECTION  669.  40.02 (48) (am) 24. of the statutes is created to read:
40.02 (48) (am) 24.  A marshal of the supreme court.
SECTION  670.  40.02 (48) (b) 6. of the statutes is created to read:
40.02 (48) (b) 6.  A Xmarshal of the supreme court Y is an individual employed 
by the office of the marshals of the supreme court under s. 758.195 and whose 
principal duties are detecting and preventing crime and enforcing laws or 
ordinances of this state.
SECTION  671.  40.02 (48) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.02 (48) (c)  In s. 40.65, Xprotective occupation participant Y means a 
participating employee who is a police officer, fire fighter, an individual determined 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 638 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  671
by a participating employer under par. (a) or (bm) to be a protective occupation 
participant, county undersheriff, deputy sheriff, county jailer who is certified as a 
protective occupation participant, state probation and parole officer, county traffic 
police officer, conservation warden, state forest ranger, field conservation employee 
of the department of natural resources who is subject to call for forest fire control or 
warden duty, member of the state traffic patrol, state motor vehicle inspector, 
University of Wisconsin System full-time police officer, guard or any other employee 
whose principal duties are supervision and discipline of inmates at a state penal 
institution, special agent employed by the department of revenue who is authorized 
to act under s. 73.031, person employed under s. 60.553 (1), 61.66 (1), or 62.13 (2e) 
(a), or special criminal investigation agent employed by the department of justice, or 
marshal of the supreme court.
SECTION  672.  40.03 (1) (dm) of the statutes is created to read:
40.03 (1) (dm)  Shall develop and implement policies, principles, and directives 
for the office of internal audit and determine the qualifications of and appoint, in 
the classified service, staff for the office of internal audit.  Staff appointed under 
this paragraph shall report directly to the board.
SECTION  673.  40.03 (2) (vm) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  674.  40.03 (2) (vt) of the statutes is created to read:
40.03 (2) (vt)  Shall, when submitting the department [s biennial budget 
request under s. 16.42, include a report that includes all of the following:
1.  Details of expenditures incurred under s. 20.515 (1) (t) through the most 
recent fiscal year .1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 639 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  674
2.  Details of expenditures anticipated under s. 20.515 (1) (t) during the 
upcoming fiscal biennium.
3.  The estimated impact on required contribution rates under s. 40.05 and 
sick leave conversion rates due to the base year expenditure authority and 
additional funding requests under s. 20.515 (1) (t) during the upcoming fiscal 
biennium.
4.  An updated progress report and timelines of the department [s anticipated 
progress on modernizing its business processes and integrating its information 
technology systems.
SECTION  675.  40.03 (4m) of the statutes is created to read:
40.03 (4m)   OFFICE  OF INTERNAL  AUDIT .  (a)  The office of internal audit shall 
provide independent assurance that the public employee trust fund assets under 
the control of the department are safeguarded for the purpose of ensuring the 
fulfillment of the benefit commitments to individuals under this chapter.
(b)  The internal auditor may review any activity, information, or record of the 
department that relates to the administration of the fund.
(c)  The internal auditor shall plan and conduct audit activities, including 
external audits, risk assessments, research projects, and management reviews, 
under the direction of the board and in accordance with policies, principles, and 
directives determined by the board.
(d)  The internal auditor shall monitor the department [s compliance with 
applicable legal requirements and contracts entered into by the department and 
the board.
SECTION  676.  40.05 (4) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 640 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  676
40.05 (4) (a) 2.  For an insured employee who is an eligible employee under s. 
40.02 (25) (a) 2. or (b) 1m. or 2c., the employer shall pay required employer 
contributions toward the health insurance premium of the insured employee 
beginning on the date on which the employee becomes insured.  For an insured state 
employee who is currently employed, but who is not a limited term appointment 
under s. 230.26 or an eligible employee under s. 40.02 (25) (a) 2. or (b) 1m. or 2c., the 
employer shall pay required employer contributions toward the health insurance 
premium of the insured employee beginning on the first day of the 3rd 2nd month 
beginning after the date on which the employee begins employment with the state, 
not including any leave of absence.  For an insured employee who has a limited term 
appointment under s. 230.26, the employer shall pay required employer 
contributions toward the health insurance premium of the insured employee 
beginning on the first day of the 7th month beginning after the date on which the 
employee first becomes a participating employee.
SECTION  677.  40.22 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.22 (1)  Except as otherwise provided in sub. (2) and s. 40.26 (6), each 
employee currently in the service of, and receiving earnings from, a state agency or 
other participating employer shall be included within the provisions of the 
Wisconsin retirement system as a participating employee of that state agency or 
participating employer.
SECTION  678.  40.22 (2) (L) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.22 (2) (L)  The employee is employed by a participating employer after the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 641 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  678
person becomes an annuitant, unless the service is after the annuity is suspended 
by the election of the employee under s. 40.26.
SECTION  679.  40.22 (2m) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.22 (2m) (intro.)  Except as otherwise provided in s. 40.26 (6), an employee 
who was a participating employee before July 1, 2011, who is not expected to work 
at least one-third of what is considered full-time employment by the department, as 
determined by rule, and who is not otherwise excluded under sub. (2) from 
becoming a participating employee shall become a participating employee if he or 
she is subsequently employed by the state agency or other participating employer 
for either of the following periods:
SECTION  680.  40.22 (2r) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.22 (2r) (intro.)  Except as otherwise provided in s. 40.26 (6), an employee 
who was not a participating employee before July 1, 2011, who is not expected to 
work at least two-thirds of what is considered full-time employment by the 
department, as determined by rule, and who is not otherwise excluded under sub. 
(2) from becoming a participating employee shall become a participating employee if 
he or she is subsequently employed by the state agency or other participating 
employer for either of the following periods:
SECTION  681.  40.22 (3) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.22 (3) (intro.)  Except as otherwise provided in s. 40.26 (6), a person who 
qualifies as a participating employee shall be included within, and shall be subject 
to, the Wisconsin retirement system effective on one of the following dates:
SECTION  682.  40.26 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 642 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  682
40.26 (1)  Except as provided in sub. (1m) and ss. 40.05 (2) (g) 2. and 40.23 (1) 
(am), if a participant receiving a retirement annuity, or a disability annuitant who 
has attained his or her normal retirement date, receives earnings that are subject to 
s. 40.05 (1) or that would be subject to s. 40.05 (1) except for the exclusion specified 
in s. 40.22 (2) (L), the annuity shall be suspended, including any amount provided 
by additional contributions, and no annuity payment shall be payable after the 
month in which the participant files with the department a written election to be 
included within the provisions of the Wisconsin retirement system as a 
participating employee.
SECTION  683.  40.26 (1m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  684.  40.26 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.26 (2) (intro.)  Upon suspension of an annuity under sub. (1) or (1m), the 
retirement account of the participant whose annuity is so suspended shall be 
established on the following basis:
SECTION  685.  40.26 (5) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.26 (5) (intro.)  Except as otherwise provided in sub. (5m), if If a participant 
applies for an annuity or lump sum payment during the period in which less than 
75 30 days have elapsed between the termination of employment with a 
participating employer and becoming a participating employee with any 
participating employer, all of the following shall apply:
SECTION  686.  40.26 (5m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  687.  40.26 (6) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  688.  40.51 (2m) (a) of the statutes is repealed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 643 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  689
SECTION  689.  40.51 (2m) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 40.51 (2m) and 
amended to read:
40.51 (2m)   If an eligible employee is divorced or was a domestic partner in a 
dissolved domestic partnership, the eligible employee may not enroll a new spouse 
or domestic partner in a group health insurance plan under this subchapter until 6 
months have elapsed since the date of the divorce or dissolved domestic 
partnership.
SECTION  690.  40.51 (7) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.51 (7) (a)  Any employer, other than the state, including an employer that is 
not a participating employer, may offer to all of its employees a health care coverage 
plan through a program offered by the group insurance board.  Notwithstanding 
sub. (2) and ss. 40.05 (4) and 40.52 (1), the department may by rule establish 
different eligibility standards or contribution requirements for such employees and 
employers.  Beginning on January 1, 2012, except as otherwise provided in a 
collective bargaining agreement under subch. IV of ch. 111 that covers public safety 
employees, transit employees, or frontline workers and except as provided in par. 
(b), an employer may not offer a health care coverage plan to its employees under 
this subsection if the employer pays more than 88 percent of the average premium 
cost of plans offered in any tier with the lowest employee premium cost under this 
subsection.
SECTION  691.  40.51 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.51 (8)  Every health care coverage plan offered by the state under sub. (6) 
shall comply with ss. 631.89, 631.90, 631.93 (2), 631.95, 632.72 (2), 632.722, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 644 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  691
632.729, 632.746 (1) to (8) and (10), 632.747, 632.748, 632.7498, 632.798, 632.83, 
632.835, 632.848, 632.85, 632.851, 632.853, 632.855, 632.861, 632.862, 632.867, 
632.87 (3) to (6) (8), 632.871, 632.885, 632.89, 632.891, 632.895 (5m) and (8) to (17), 
and 632.896.
SECTION  692.  40.51 (8m) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.51 (8m)   Every health care coverage plan offered by the group insurance 
board under sub. (7) shall comply with ss. 631.95, 632.722, 632.729, 632.746 (1) to 
(8) and (10), 632.747, 632.748, 632.7498, 632.798, 632.83, 632.835, 632.848, 632.85, 
632.851, 632.853, 632.855, 632.861, 632.862, 632.867, 632.87 (4e), (7), and (8), 
632.871, 632.885, 632.89, 632.891, and 632.895 (11) to (17).
SECTION  693.  40.513 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.513 (3) (b)  The employee [s spouse or domestic partner is receiving health 
care coverage under s. 40.51 (6).
SECTION  694.  40.52 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.52 (2)  Health insurance benefits under this subchapter shall be 
integrated, with exceptions determined appropriate by the group insurance board, 
with benefits under federal plans for hospital and health care for the aged and 
disabled.  Exclusions and limitations with respect to benefits and different rates 
may be established for persons eligible under federal plans for hospital and health 
care for the aged and disabled in recognition of the utilization by persons within the 
age limits eligible under the federal program.  The plan may include special 
provisions for spouses, domestic partners, and other dependents covered under a 
plan established under this subchapter where one spouse or domestic partner is 
eligible under federal plans for hospital and health care for the aged but the others 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 645 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  694
are not eligible because of age or other reasons.  As part of the integration, the 
department may, out of premiums collected under s. 40.05 (4), pay premiums for the 
federal health insurance.
SECTION  695.  40.55 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
40.55 (1)  Except as provided in sub. (5), the state shall offer, through the 
group insurance board, to eligible employees under s. 40.02 (25) (bm) and to state 
annuitants long-term care insurance policies which have been filed with the office 
of the commissioner of insurance and which have been approved for offering under 
contracts established by the group insurance board.  The state shall also allow an 
eligible employee or a state annuitant to purchase those policies for his or her 
spouse, domestic partner, or parent.
SECTION  696.  40.65 (4y) of the statutes is created to read:
40.65 (4y)  A marshal of the supreme court under s. 758.195 who becomes a 
protective occupation participant on or after the effective date of this subsection .... 
[LRB inserts date], is not entitled to a duty disability benefit under this section for 
an injury or disease occurring before the effective date of this subsection .... [LRB 
inserts date].
SECTION  697.  40.65 (7) (am) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
40.65 (7) (am) 1.  To the surviving spouse or surviving domestic partner until 
the surviving spouse remarries, or the surviving domestic partner enters into a 
new domestic partnership or marries, if the surviving spouse was married to the 
participant on the date that the participant was disabled under sub. (4), or the 
surviving domestic partner was in a domestic partnership on the date that the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 646 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  697
participant was disabled under sub. (4), 50 percent of the participant [s monthly 
salary at the time of death, but reduced by any amount payable under sub. (5) (b) 1. 
to 6.
SECTION  698.  40.65 (7) (am) 1g. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  699.  40.65 (7) (am) 1m. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  700.  40.65 (7) (am) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
40.65 (7) (am) 3.  The total monthly amount paid under subds. 1., 1g., 1m., and 
2. may not exceed 70 percent of the participant [s monthly salary at the time of death 
reduced by any amounts under sub. (5) (b) 1. to 6. that relate to the participant [s 
work record.
SECTION  701.  40.65 (7) (ar) 1. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
40.65 (7) (ar) 1. a.  To the surviving spouse or the surviving domestic partner 
until the surviving spouse remarries, or the surviving domestic partner enters into 
a new domestic partnership or marries, if the surviving spouse was married to the 
participant on the date that the participant was disabled under sub. (4), or the 
surviving domestic partner was in a domestic partnership with the participant on 
the date that the participant was disabled under sub. (4), 70 percent of the 
participant [s monthly salary at the time of death, but reduced by any amount 
payable under sub. (5) (b) 1. to 6.
SECTION  702.  40.65 (7) (ar) 1. ag. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  703.  40.65 (7) (ar) 1. am. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  704.  40.80 (2r) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 647 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  704
40.80 (2r) (a) 1.  Relates to a marriage or domestic partnership that 
terminated after December 1, 2001.
SECTION  705.  40.80 (2r) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
40.80 (2r) (a) 2.  Assigns all or part of a participant [s accumulated assets held 
in a deferred compensation plan under this subchapter to a spouse, former spouse, 
domestic partner, former domestic partner, child, or other dependent to satisfy a 
family support or marital property obligation.
SECTION  706.  41.152 of the statutes is created to read:
41.152  Film production tax credits.  (1)   The department shall implement 
a program to accredit productions for purposes of ss. 71.07 (5f) and (5h), 71.28 (5f) 
and (5h), and 71.47 (5f) and (5h).  Application for accreditation shall be made to the 
office in each taxable year for which accreditation is desired.
(2)  If the department accredits a production under sub. (1), the office shall 
determine the amount of the production [s production expenditures, as defined in s. 
71.07 (5f) (a) 4.  The department shall not issue an accreditation under sub. (1) 
without first receiving written confirmation from the applicant that the applicant 
has retained a certified public accountant located in this state to conduct periodic 
audits to ensure compliance with this section and ss. 71.07 (5f) and (5h), 71.28 (5f) 
and (5h), and 71.47 (5f) and (5h), as prescribed by rule by the office.  An entity 
applying for a credit under s. 71.07 (5f), 71.28 (5f), or 71.47 (5f) that does not have 
its commercial domicile in this state shall indicate that on its application along with 
the amount of production expenditures it anticipates spending in this state and the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 648 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  706
amount of expenditures, if any, it anticipates spending in another state on the same 
production.
(3)  The department shall notify the department of revenue of every 
production accredited under sub. (1), the amount of the production [s production 
expenditures, and the amount of the credits allocated to the applicant for the 
taxable year for which the applicant [s claim relates.
(4)  The department may not allocate more than $10,000,000 in tax credits in 
each fiscal year and no more than $1,000,000 in tax credits to any single applicant 
in each fiscal year.
(5)  Each applicant who produces an accredited production, as defined in s. 
71.07 (5f) (a) 1., that is eligible for a credit under s. 71.07 (5f), 71.28 (5f), or 71.42 
(5f) shall include in the finished production an acknowledgment to the state of 
Wisconsin and the department as designed by the department, including a logo 
designed by the department.
(6)  Annually, beginning in 2027, the department shall prepare a report 
specifying the number of persons who submitted credit applications in the previous 
year and the amount of the credits allocated to each such applicant.  The report 
shall also provide recommendations and suggestions on improving the efficiency of 
the program implemented under this section.  The office shall submit the report to 
the legislature, in the manner provided under s. 13.172 (2), no later than April 30 
each year.
(7)  The department shall promulgate rules to administer this section.
SECTION  707.  41.17 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 649 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  707
41.17 (5)  FUNDING  SOURCE .  Subject to the 50 percent limitation under s. 
20.380 (1) (b) and the proportional expenditure requirements under s. 20.380 (1) (b) 
and (kg), the department shall expend, from the appropriations under s. 20.380 (1) 
(b), (kg), and (w), at least $1,130,000 in the aggregate in each fiscal year in joint 
effort marketing funds under this section.
SECTION  708.  43.05 (12m) of the statutes is created to read:
43.05 (12m)   From the appropriation under s. 20.255 (3) (cL), beginning in the 
2026-27 school year, provide payments, in the amount of $2,500 per student per 
semester, to students who are enrolled in a program leading to a master [s degree in 
library and information sciences and are placed as an intern in a public library or 
school library.  The division may promulgate rules to implement this subsection.
SECTION  709.  44.02 (5s) of the statutes is amended to read:
44.02 (5s)  Except as provided in s. 16.84 (2), have responsibility for security at 
the Wisconsin Historical Museum located at 30 N. Carroll Street in Madison and at 
any subsequent museum located on N. Carroll Street in Madison.
SECTION  710.  45.01 (6) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
45.01 (6) (c)  The biological natural or adoptive parent or a person who acts in 
the place of a parent and who has so acted for not less than 12 months prior to the 
veteran[s entrance into active service.
SECTION  711.  45.01 (12) (fm) of the statutes is created to read:
45.01 (12) (fm)  A person who resides in this state, if any of the following 
applies:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 650 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  711
1.  The person was naturalized pursuant to section 2 (1) of the federal Hmong 
Veterans [ Naturalization Act of 2000, P.L. 106-207.
2.  The person is a U.S. citizen or a lawful permanent resident of the United 
States and the secretary has determined that the person served honorably with a 
special guerrilla unit or irregular forces operating from a base in Laos in support of 
the armed forces of the United States at any time during the period beginning 
February 28, 1961, and ending September 18, 1978.
SECTION  712.  45.01 (12) (k) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  713.  45.40 (title) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
45.40   (title)  Veterans assistance grants.
SECTION  714 .  45.40 (1g) (intro.) and (a) of the statutes are consolidated, 
renumbered 45.40 (1g) and amended to read:
45.40 (1g)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:  (a)  XHealth, Xhealth care provider Y 
means an advanced practice nurse prescriber who is certified under s. 441.16 (2), 
an audiologist who is licensed under subch. II of ch. 459 or who holds a compact 
privilege under subch. III of ch. 459, a dentist who is licensed under subch. I of ch. 
447 or who holds a compact privilege under subch. II of ch. 447, an optometrist who 
is licensed under ch. 449, a physician who is licensed under s. 448.02, or a podiatrist 
who is licensed under s. 448.63 has the meaning given in s. 146.81 (1) and includes 
an ambulatory surgery center.
SECTION  715.  45.40 (1g) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  716.  45.40 (1m) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
45.40 (1m)  (a)  The department may provide subsistence payments to a 
veteran on a month-to-month basis or for a 3-month period.  The department may 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 651 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  716
pay subsistence aid for a 3-month period if the veteran will be incapacitated for 
more than 3 months and if earned or unearned income or aid from sources other 
than those listed in the application will not be available in the 3-month period.  The 
department may provide subsistence payments only to a veteran who has suffered a 
loss of income due to illness, injury, or natural disaster.  The department may grant 
subsistence aid under this subsection to a veteran whose loss of income is the result 
of abuse of alcohol or other drugs only if the veteran is participating in an alcohol 
and other drug abuse treatment program that is approved by the department.  No 
payment may be made under this subsection if the veteran has other assets or 
income available to meet basic subsistence needs or if the veteran is eligible to 
receive aid from other sources to meet those needs.  When determining the assets 
available to the veteran, the department may not include the first $50,000 of cash 
surrender value of any life insurance.
SECTION  717.  45.40 (1m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
45.40 (1m)  (b)  The maximum amount that any veteran may receive under 
this subsection per occurrence during a consecutive 12-month period may not 
exceed $3,000 $5,000.
SECTION  718.  45.40 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
45.40 (2) (a)  The department may provide health care aid to a veteran for 
dental care, including dentures; vision care, including eyeglass frames and lenses; 
and hearing care, including hearing aids; and any other medical device prescribed 
by a health care provider.
SECTION  719.  45.40 (2m) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 652 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  719
45.40 (2m)  (a)  The unremarried spouse and dependent children of a veteran 
who died on active duty, or in the line of duty while on active or inactive duty for 
training purposes, in the U.S. armed forces or forces incorporated in the U.S. armed 
forces are eligible to receive payments under subs. (1m) and (2) if the household 
income of those persons does not exceed the income limitations established under 
sub. (3m).
SECTION  720.  45.40 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
45.40 (3)  LIMITATIONS .  The total cumulative amount that any veteran may 
receive under this section may not exceed $7,500 $10,000.
SECTION  721.  45.41 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
45.41 (5)  From the appropriation under s. 20.485 (2) (vs), the department may 
annually grant up to $75,000 $100,000 to the Wisconsin department of the 
American Legion for the operation of Camp American Legion.
SECTION  722.  45.44 (3) (c) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
45.44 (3) (c) (intro.)  A veteran, as defined in s. 45.01 (12) (a) to (f) (fm), or one 
of the following:
SECTION  723.  45.49 of the statutes is created to read:
45.49   Veterans mental health grant program.   (1)  The department shall 
promote and assist veterans [ access to, and provide grants to organizations that 
provide to veterans, community-based and emergency crisis mental health services.
(2)  The department may promulgate emergency rules under s. 227.24 as 
necessary to administer this section.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the 
department is not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this 
subsection as an emergency rule is necessary for the preservation of the public 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 653 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  723
peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of 
emergency for a rule promulgated under this subsection.
SECTION  724.  45.51 (2) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
45.51 (2) (a) 1.  A veteran, other than a veteran described under s. 45.01 (12) 
(fm).
SECTION  725.  45.51 (3) (c) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
45.51 (3) (c) 2.  The department may deviate from this sequence upon order of 
the board to prevent the separation of  a husband and wife spouses.
SECTION  726.  45.51 (5) (a) 1. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
45.51 (5) (a) 1. b.  Was married to the person under sub. (2) (a) 1. or 2. at the 
time the person entered the service and who became a widow or widower surviving 
spouse by the death of the person while in the service or as a result of physical 
disability of the person incurred during the service.
SECTION  727.  45.51 (5) (a) 1. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
45.51 (5) (a) 1. c.  The period during which the surviving spouse was married 
to and lived with the deceased person under sub. (2) (a) 1. or 2. plus the period of 
widowhood or widowerhood after the death of the deceased person is 6 months or 
more.
SECTION  728.  45.55 of the statutes is amended to read:
45.55   Notes and mortgages of minor veterans.   Notwithstanding any 
provision of this chapter or any other law to the contrary, any minor who served in 
the active armed forces of the United States at any time after August 27, 1940, and 
the husband or wife spouse of such a minor may execute, in his or her own right, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 654 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  728
notes or mortgages, as defined in s. 851.15, the payment of which is guaranteed or 
insured by the U.S. department of veterans affairs or the federal housing 
administrator under the servicemen [s readjustment act of 1944, the national 
housing act, or any acts supplementing or amending these acts.  In connection with 
these transactions, the minors may sell, release, or convey the mortgaged property 
and litigate or settle controversies arising therefrom, including the execution of 
releases, deeds, and other necessary papers or instruments.  The notes, mortgages, 
releases, deeds, and other necessary papers or instruments when so executed are 
not subject to avoidance by the minor or the husband or wife spouse of the minor 
upon either or both of them attaining the age of 18 because of the minority of either 
or both of them at the time of the execution thereof.
SECTION  729.  45.82 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
45.82 (2)  The department of veterans affairs shall award a grant annually to 
a county that meets the standards developed under this section if the county 
executive, administrator, or administrative coordinator certifies to the department 
that it employs a county veterans service officer who, if chosen after April 15, 2015, 
is elected or appointed under s. 45.80 (1).  A grant for $11,688 $12,300 shall be 
awarded for a county with a population of less than 20,000, a grant for $13,750 
$14,400 shall be awarded for a county with a population of 20,000 to 45,499, a grant 
for $15,813 $16,600 shall be awarded for a county with a population of 45,500 to 
74,999, and a grant for $17,875 $18,800 shall be awarded for a county with a 
population of 75,000 or more.  The department of veterans affairs shall use the most 
recent Wisconsin official population estimates prepared by the demographic 
services center when making grants under this subsection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 655 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  730
SECTION  730.  45.82 (3) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  731.  45.82 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
45.82 (4)  The department shall provide grants to the governing bodies of 
federally recognized American Indian tribes and bands from the appropriation 
under s. 20.485 (2) (km) or (vu) if that governing body enters into an agreement 
with the department regarding the creation, goals, and objectives of a tribal 
veterans service officer, appoints a veteran to act as a tribal veterans service officer, 
and gives that veteran duties similar to the duties described in s. 45.80 (5), except 
that the veteran shall report to the governing body of the tribe or band.  The 
department may make in an amount not to exceed $20,625 $21,700 per grant 
annual grants under this subsection and shall promulgate rules to implement this 
subsection.
SECTION  732.  46.03 (44) of the statutes is amended to read:
46.03 (44)  S EXUALLY  TRANSMITTED  DISEASE  TREATMENT  INFORMATION .  
Prepare and keep current an information sheet to be distributed to a patient by a 
physician, a physician assistant, or certified an advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber who may issue prescription orders under s. 441.09 (2) providing 
expedited partner therapy to that patient under s. 441.092, 448.035, or 448.9725.  
The information sheet shall include information about sexually transmitted 
diseases and their treatment and about the risk of drug allergies.  The information 
sheet shall also include a statement advising a person with questions about the 
information to contact his or her physician, advanced practice registered nurse, 
pharmacist, or local health department, as defined in s. 250.01 (4).
SECTION  733.  46.057 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 656 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  733
46.057 (2)  From the appropriation account under s. 20.410 (3) (ba) or (hm), 
the department of corrections shall reimburse the department of health services for 
the cost of providing services for juveniles who are under the supervision of the 
department of corrections and are placed at the Mendota juvenile treatment center 
at a per person daily cost specified by the department of health services.  The 
department of health services may charge the department of corrections not more 
than the actual cost of providing those services.
SECTION  734.  46.10 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
46.10 (1)  Liability and the collection and enforcement of such liability for the 
care, maintenance, services, and supplies specified in this section is governed 
exclusively by this section, except in cases of child support ordered by a court under 
s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 (5m) (a), or 48.363 (2) or ch. 767 or s. 48.355 (2) 
(b) 4., 2023 stats., or s. 48.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats.
SECTION  735.  46.10 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
46.10 (2)  Except as provided in subs. (2m) and (14) (b) and (c), any person, 
including but not limited to a person admitted, committed, protected, or placed 
under s. 975.01, 1977 stats., s. 975.02, 1977 stats., s. 975.17, 1977 stats., s. 55.05 (5), 
2003 stats., and s. 55.06, 2003 stats., and ss. 51.10, 51.13, 51.15, 51.20, 51.35 (3), 
51.37 (5), 51.45 (10), (11), (12) and (13), 55.05, 55.055, 55.12, 55.13, 55.135, 971.14 
(2) and (5), 971.17 (1), 975.06 and 980.06, receiving care, maintenance, services, 
and supplies provided by any institution in this state including University of 
Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics, in which the state is chargeable with all or part of 
the person [s care, maintenance, services, and supplies, any person receiving care 
and services from a county department established under s. 51.42 or 51.437 or from 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 657 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  735
a facility established under s. 49.73, and any person receiving treatment and 
services from a public or private agency under s. 980.06 (2) (c), 1997 stats., s. 980.08 
(5), 2003 stats., or s. 971.17 (3) (d) or (4) (e) or 980.08 (4) (g) and the person [s 
property and estate, including the homestead, and the spouse of the person, and the 
spouse[s property and estate, including the homestead, and, in the case of a minor 
child, the parents of the person, and their property and estates, including their 
homestead, and, in the case of a foreign child described in s. 48.839 (1) who became 
dependent on public funds for his or her primary support before an order granting 
his or her adoption, the resident of this state appointed guardian of the child by a 
foreign court who brought the child into this state for the purpose of adoption, and 
his or her property and estate, including his or her homestead, shall be liable for the 
cost of the care, maintenance, services, and supplies in accordance with the fee 
schedule established by the department under s. 46.03 (18).  If a spouse, widow 
surviving spouse, or minor, or an incapacitated person may be lawfully dependent 
upon the property for their support, the court shall release all or such part of the 
property and estate from the charges that may be necessary to provide for those 
persons.  The department shall make every reasonable effort to notify the liable 
persons as soon as possible after the beginning of the maintenance, but the notice 
or the receipt thereof is not a condition of liability.
SECTION  736.  46.10 (14) (e) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
46.10 (14) (e) 1.  An order issued under s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 
(5m) (a), or 48.363 (2) or s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., or s. 48.357 (5m) (a), 2023 
stats., for support determined under this subsection constitutes an assignment of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 658 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  736
all commissions, earnings, salaries, wages, pension benefits, income continuation 
insurance benefits under s. 40.62, duty disability benefits under s. 40.65, benefits 
under ch. 102 or 108, and other money due or to be due in the future to the county 
department under s. 46.22 or 46.23 in the county where the order was entered or to 
the department, depending upon the placement of the child as specified by rules 
promulgated under subd. 5.  The assignment shall be for an amount sufficient to 
ensure payment under the order.
SECTION  737.  46.275 (5) (e) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  738.  46.2895 (8) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
46.2895 (8) (a) 1.  If the long-term care district offers employment to any 
individual who was previously employed by a county, which participated in creating 
the district and at the time of the offer had not withdrawn or been removed from the 
district under sub. (14), and who while employed by the county performed duties 
relating to the same or a substantially similar function for which the individual is 
offered employment by the district and whose wages were established in who was 
covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the county under subch. IV of ch. 
111 that is in effect on the date that the individual commences employment with 
the district, with respect to that individual, abide by the terms of the collective 
bargaining agreement concerning the individual [s wages until the time of the 
expiration of that collective bargaining agreement or adoption of a collective 
bargaining agreement with the district under subch. IV of ch. 111 covering the 
individual as an employee of the district, whichever occurs first.
SECTION  739.  46.40 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
46.40 (8)  ALZHEIMER [S FAMILY  AND CAREGIVER  SUPPORT  ALLOCATION .  Subject 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 659 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  739
to sub. (9), the department cannot distribute more than $3,058,900 $3,558,900 in 
each fiscal year for services to persons with Alzheimer [s disease and their 
caregivers under s. 46.87.
SECTION  740.  46.47 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
46.47 (1) (b)  The county or tribe has an established drug court, as defined 
alternatives to prosecution and incarceration program, as described in s. 165.955 
(1) 165.95 (3).
SECTION  741.  46.48 (16) of the statutes is created to read:
46.48 (16)  ASSISTIVE  TECHNOLOGY .  The department may distribute not more 
than $250,000 in each fiscal year for grants to provide assistive technology services.
SECTION  742.  46.48 (21) of the statutes is created to read:
46.48 (21)  TRAUMA  RESILIENCE  GRANT .  The department may distribute not 
more than $250,000 in fiscal year 2025-26 and not more than $250,000 in fiscal 
year 2026-27 as a grant to an organization in the city of Milwaukee to support the 
needs of individuals impacted by trauma and to develop the capacity of 
organizations to treat and prevent trauma.
SECTION  743.  46.48 (21) of the statutes, as created by 2025 Wisconsin Act .... 
(this act), is repealed.
SECTION  744.  46.48 (24) of the statutes is created to read:
46.48 (24)  P EDIATRIC  HEALTH  PSYCHOLOGY  RESIDENCY  AND FELLOWSHIP  
TRAINING  PROGRAMS .  The department may distribute not more than $600,000 in 
each fiscal year as grants to support pediatric health psychology residency and 
fellowship training programs.
SECTION  745.  46.48 (27) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 660 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  745
46.48 (27)  COMMUNITY -BASED  WITHDRAWAL  MANAGEMENT  CENTERS .  From the 
appropriation under s. 20.435 (5) (bc), the department shall distribute not more 
than $500,000 in each fiscal year for grants to community-based withdrawal 
centers, including those certified as an adult residential integrated behavioral 
health stabilization service, residential intoxication monitoring service, or 
residential withdrawal management service, as those terms are defined under s. 
49.45 (30p) (a) 1., 4., and 5.
SECTION  746.  46.48 (33) of the statutes is created to read:
46.48 (33)  DIAPER  BANK  GRANTS .  The department may distribute not more 
than $500,000 in each fiscal year as grants to diaper banks to provide diapers to 
families in need.
SECTION  747.  46.48 (34) of the statutes is created to read:
46.48 (34)  MATERNAL  AND CHILD  HEALTH .  The department may distribute not 
more than $800,000 in each fiscal year as grants to local and community-based 
organizations whose mission is to improve maternal and child health in this state.
SECTION  748.  46.48 (35) of the statutes is created to read:
46.48 (35)  PSYCHIATRIC  RESIDENTIAL  TREATMENT  FACILITIES .  The department 
may distribute not more than $1,790,000 in each fiscal year to support psychiatric 
residential treatment facilities under s. 51.044.
SECTION  749.  46.482 (1) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 46.482 (1) (bm).
SECTION  750.  46.482 (1) (am) of the statutes is created to read:
46.482 (1) (am)  XCertified peer specialist Y means an individual described 
under s. 49.45 (30j) (a) 1m. who has met the certification requirements established 
by the department.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 661 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  751
SECTION  751.  46.482 (1) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 46.482 (1) (c) and 
amended to read:
46.482 (1) (c)  XPeer recovery coach Y means an individual described under s. 
49.45 (30j) (a) 2. 3. who has completed the training requirements specified under s. 
49.45 (30j) (b) 4.
SECTION  752.  46.482 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
46.482 (2) (a)  Use peer recovery coaches and certified peer specialists to 
encourage individuals to seek treatment for a substance use disorder following an 
overdose.
SECTION  753.  46.482 (2) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
46.482 (2) (f)  Collect and evaluate data on the outcomes of patients receiving 
peer recovery coach or certified peer specialist services and coordination and 
continuation of care services under this section.
SECTION  754.  46.533 of the statutes is created to read:
46.533   Suicide and crisis lifeline; grants.   (1)  In this section, Xnational 
crisis hotline Y means the telephone or text access number X988,Y or its successor, 
that is maintained under the federally administered program under 42 USC 290bb-
36c.
(2)  From the appropriation under s. 20.435 (5) (ch), the department shall 
award grants to organizations that provide crisis intervention services and crisis 
care coordination to individuals who contact the national crisis hotline from 
anywhere within this state.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 662 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  755
SECTION  755.  46.536 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 46.536 (1) (intro.) and 
amended to read:
46.536 (1) (intro.)  From the appropriation under s. 20.435 (5) (cf), the 
department shall award all of the following grants in the:
(a)  A total amount of $250,000 in each fiscal biennium to counties or regions 
comprised of multiple counties to establish or enhance crisis programs to serve 
individuals having crises in rural areas or counties, municipalities, or regions 
comprised of multiple counties or municipalities to establish and enhance law 
enforcement and behavioral health services emergency response collaboration 
programs.  Grant recipients under this section paragraph shall match at least 25 
percent of the grant amount awarded for the purpose that the grant is received.  
The department may not award any single grant in an amount greater than 
$100,000.
SECTION  756.  46.536 (1) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
46.536 (1) (b)  A total amount of $2,000,000 in each fiscal biennium to 
counties, regions comprised of multiple counties, or municipalities to establish and 
enhance law enforcement and behavioral health services emergency response 
collaboration programs.  Grant recipients under this paragraph shall match at least 
25 percent of the grant amount awarded for the purpose that the grant is received.
SECTION  757.  46.73 of the statutes is created to read:
46.73   Community dental health coordinators.   From the appropriations 
under s. 20.435 (4) (bm) and (pa), the department shall award grants to support 
community dental health coordinators in rural regions of the state.
SECTION  758.  46.74 of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 663 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  758
46.74   Grants for mobile dental clinics.   The department shall award 
grants to community health centers, as defined in s. 250.15 (1) (a), to procure and 
operate mobile dental clinics.
SECTION  759.  46.995 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
46.995 (4)  The department shall ensure that any child who is eligible and who 
applies for the disabled children [s long-term support program that is operating 
under a waiver of federal law receives services under the disabled children [s 
longterm support program that is operating under a waiver of federal law.
SECTION  760.  47.02 (3m) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
47.02 (3m)  (f)  Assure that eligibility for vocational rehabilitation services 
under this chapter is determined without regard to the sex, race, age, creed, color, 
or national origin, sexual orientation, as defined in s. 111.32 (13m), gender 
expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), or gender identity, as defined in s. 111.32 
(7k), of the individual applying for services, that no class of individuals is found 
ineligible solely on the basis of type of disability, and that no age limitations for 
eligibility exist which that, by themselves, would result in ineligibility for vocational 
rehabilitation services.
SECTION  761.  48.02 (1d) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.02 (1d)  XAdultY means a person who is 18 years of age or older, except that 
for purposes of investigating or prosecuting a person who is alleged to have violated 
any state or federal criminal law or any civil law or municipal ordinance, XadultY 
means a person who has attained 17 years of age.
SECTION  762.  48.02 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 664 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  762
48.02 (2)  XChild,Y when used without further qualification, means a person 
who is less than 18 years of age, except that for purposes of investigating or 
prosecuting a person who is alleged to have violated a state or federal criminal law 
or any civil law or municipal ordinance, XchildY does not include a person who has 
attained 17 years of age.
SECTION  763.  48.02 (13) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.02 (13)  XParentY means a biological natural parent, a husband who has 
consented to the artificial insemination of his wife under s. 891.40, or a parent by 
adoption.  If the child is a nonmarital child who is not adopted or whose parents do 
not subsequently intermarry under s. 767.803, XparentY includes a person 
conclusively determined from genetic test results to be the father under s. 767.804 
or, a person acknowledged under s. 767.805 or a substantially similar law of another 
state to be a natural parent, or a person adjudicated to be the biological father a 
natural parent.  XParentY does not include any person whose parental rights have 
been terminated.  For purposes of the application of s. 48.028 and the federal Indian 
Child Welfare Act, 25 USC 1901 to 1963, XparentY means a biological natural 
parent of an Indian child, an Indian husband spouse who has consented to the 
artificial insemination of his wife or her spouse under s. 891.40, or an Indian person 
who has lawfully adopted an Indian child, including an adoption under tribal law or 
custom, and includes, in the case of a nonmarital Indian child who is not adopted or 
whose parents do not subsequently intermarry under s. 767.803, a person 
conclusively determined from genetic test results to be the father under s. 767.804, 
a person acknowledged under s. 767.805, a substantially similar law of another 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 665 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  763
state, or tribal law or custom to be the biological father natural parent, or a person 
adjudicated to be the biological father natural parent, but does not include any 
person whose parental rights have been terminated.
SECTION  764.  48.025 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.025   (title)  Declaration of paternal parental interest in matters 
affecting children.
SECTION  765.  48.025 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.025 (2) (b)  A declaration under sub. (1) may be filed at any time before the 
birth of the child or within 14 days after the birth of the child, except that a man 
person who receives a notice under s. 48.42 (1g) (b) may file a declaration within 21 
days after the date on which the notice was mailed.  This paragraph does not apply 
to a declaration filed before July 1, 2006.
SECTION  766.  48.025 (3) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.025 (3) (c)  A court in a proceeding under s. 48.13, 48.133, 48.14, or 938.13 
or under a substantially similar law of another state or a person authorized to file a 
petition under s. 48.25, 48.42, 48.837, or 938.25 or under a substantially similar law 
of another state may request the department to search its files to determine 
whether a person who may be the father parent of the child who is the subject of the 
proceeding has filed a declaration under this section.  If the department has on file 
a declaration of paternal parental interest in matters affecting the child, the 
department shall issue to the requester a copy of the declaration.  If the department 
does not have on file a declaration of paternal parental interest in matters affecting 
the child, the department shall issue to the requester a statement that no 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 666 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  766
declaration could be located.  The department may require a person who requests a 
search under this paragraph to pay a reasonable fee that is sufficient to defray the 
costs to the department of maintaining its file of declarations and publicizing 
information relating to declarations of paternal parental interest under this 
section.
SECTION  767.  48.233 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.233 (2)  This section does not apply to a proceeding commenced on or after 
June 2025 January 1, 2027 under s. 48.13.
SECTION  768.  48.233 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.233 (3)  The state public defender may promulgate rules necessary to 
implement the pilot program established under sub. (1).  The state public defender 
may promulgate the rules under this subsection as emergency rules under s. 
227.24.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the state public defender is not 
required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this subsection as an 
emergency rule is necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety, 
or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of emergency for a rule 
promulgated under this subsection. Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), 
emergency rules promulgated under this subsection remain in effect until four 
years after June 30, 2021 January 1, 2027.
SECTION  769.  48.233 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.233 (4)  By January 1, 2025 2027, the department and the state public 
defender shall each submit a report to the joint committee on finance, and to the 
chief clerk of each house of the legislature for distribution to the appropriate 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 667 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  769
standing committees under s. 13.172 (3), regarding costs and data from 
implementing the pilot program under sub. (1).
SECTION  770.  48.27 (3) (b) 1. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.27 (3) (b) 1. a.  A person who has filed a declaration of paternal parental 
interest under s. 48.025.
SECTION  771.  48.27 (3) (b) 1. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.27 (3) (b) 1. b.  A person alleged to the court to be the father a parent of the 
child or who may, based on the statements of the mother parent who gave birth to 
the child or other information presented to the court, be the father a parent of the 
child.
SECTION  772.  48.27 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.27 (5)  Subject to sub. (3) (b), the court shall make every reasonable effort to 
identify and notify any person who has filed a declaration of paternal parental 
interest under s. 48.025, any person conclusively determined from genetic test 
results to be the father under s. 767.804 (1), any person who has acknowledged 
paternity parentage of the child under s. 767.805 (1), and any person who has been 
adjudged to be the father parent of the child in a judicial proceeding unless the 
person[s parental rights have been terminated.
SECTION  773.  48.299 (6) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.299 (6) (intro.)  If a man person who has been given notice under s. 48.27 (3) 
(b) 1., 48.977 (4) (c) 1., 48.978 (2) (c) 1., or 48.9795 (4) (c) 1. appears at any hearing 
for which he or she received the notice, alleges that he or she is the father a parent 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 668 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  773
of the child, and states that he or she wishes to establish the paternity parentage of 
the child, all of the following apply:
SECTION  774.  48.299 (6) (e) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.299 (6) (e) 1.  In this paragraph, Xgenetic test Y means a test that examines 
genetic markers present on blood cells, skin cells, tissue cells, bodily fluid cells or 
cells of another body material for the purpose of determining the statistical 
probability that a man person who is alleged to be a child [s father parent is the 
child[s biological father parent.
SECTION  775.  48.299 (6) (e) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.299 (6) (e) 2.  The court shall, at the hearing, orally inform any man person 
specified in sub. (6) (intro.) that he or she may be required to pay for any testing 
ordered by the court under this paragraph or under s. 885.23.
SECTION  776.  48.299 (6) (e) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.299 (6) (e) 3.  In addition to ordering testing as provided under s. 885.23, if 
the court determines that it would be in the best interests of the child, the court 
may order any man person specified in sub. (6) (intro.) to submit to one or more 
genetic tests which shall be performed by an expert qualified as an examiner of 
genetic markers present on the cells and of the specific body material to be used for 
the tests, as appointed by the court.  A report completed and certified by the court-
appointed expert stating genetic test results and the statistical probability that the 
man person alleged to be the child [s father parent is the child [s biological father 
parent based upon the genetic tests is admissible as evidence without expert 
testimony and may be entered into the record at any hearing.  The court, upon 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 669 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  776
request by a party, may order that independent tests be performed by other experts 
qualified as examiners of genetic markers present on the cells of the specific body 
materials to be used for the tests.
SECTION  777.  48.299 (6) (e) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.299 (6) (e) 4.  If the genetic tests show that an alleged father parent is not 
excluded and that the statistical probability that the alleged father parent is the 
child[s biological father parent is 99.0 percent or higher, the court may determine 
that for purposes of a proceeding under this chapter, other than a proceeding under 
subch. VIII, the man person is the child [s biological parent.
SECTION  778.  48.299 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.299 (7)  If a man person who has been given notice under s. 48.27 (3) (b) 1., 
48.977 (4) (c) 1., 48.978 (2) (c) 1., or 48.9795 (4) (c) 1. appears at any hearing for 
which he or she received the notice but does not allege that he or she is the father a 
parent of the child and state that he or she wishes to establish the paternity 
parentage of the child or if no man person to whom such notice was given appears at 
a hearing, the court may refer the matter to the state or to the attorney responsible 
for support enforcement under s. 59.53 (6) (a) for a determination, under s. 767.80, 
of whether an action should be brought for the purpose of determining the paternity 
parentage of the child.
SECTION  779.  48.33 (4) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  780.  48.33 (4m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  781.  48.335 (3r) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  782.  48.355 (2) (b) 4. of the statutes is repealed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 670 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  783
SECTION  783.  48.355 (4g) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.355 (4g) (a) 1.  The child [s parents are parties to a pending action for 
divorce, annulment, or legal separation, a man person determined under s. 48.299 
(6) (e) 4. to be the biological father parent of the child for purposes of a proceeding 
under this chapter is a party to a pending action to determine paternity of the child 
under ch. 767, or the child is the subject of a pending independent action under s. 
767.41 or 767.43 to determine legal custody of the child or visitation rights with 
respect to the child.
SECTION  784.  48.357 (5m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  785.  48.36 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
48.36 (4) (a)  The county department or the department may, based on criteria 
established by the department by rule, refer to the attorney responsible for support 
enforcement under s. 59.53 (6) (a) the name of the parent or parents of a child for 
whom an out-of-home care placement has been ordered under s. 48.355 or 48.357.
(b)  The department shall promulgate rules establishing criteria for when it is 
appropriate for a child support referral to be made under par. (a). 
SECTION  786.  48.363 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.363 (2)  If the court revises a dispositional order entered prior to July 1, 
2026, with respect to the amount of child support to be paid by a parent for the care 
and maintenance of the parent [s minor child who has been placed by a court order 
under this chapter in a residential, nonmedical facility, the court shall determine 
the liability of the parent in the manner provided in s. 49.345 (14).
SECTION  787.  48.38 (2) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.38 (2) (f)  The child [s care would be paid for under s. 49.19 but for s. 49.19 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 671 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  787
(20), except that this paragraph does not apply to a child whose care is being paid 
for under s. 48.623 (1) (1r).
SECTION  788.  48.38 (4) (j) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.38 (4) (j) (intro.)  If the child is placed in the home of a relative or other 
person described in s. 48.623 (1) (1r) (b) 1. who will be receiving subsidized 
guardianship payments, a description of all of the following:
SECTION  789.  48.38 (4) (j) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.38 (4) (j) 3.  The reasons why a permanent placement with a fit and willing 
relative or other person described in s. 48.623 (1) (1r) (b) 1. through a subsidized 
guardianship arrangement is in the best interests of the child.  In the case of an 
Indian child, the best interests of the Indian child shall be determined in 
accordance with s. 48.01 (2).
SECTION  790.  48.38 (4) (j) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.38 (4) (j) 4.  The ways in which the child and the relative or other person 
described in s. 48.623 (1) (1r) (b) 1. meet the eligibility requirements specified in s. 
48.623 (1) (1r) for the receipt of subsidized guardianship payments.
SECTION  791.  48.38 (4) (j) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.38 (4) (j) 5.  The efforts the agency has made to discuss adoption of the child 
by the relative or other person described in s. 48.623 (1) (1r) (b) 1. as a more 
permanent alternative to guardianship and, if that relative or other person has 
chosen not to pursue adoption, documentation of the reasons for not pursuing 
adoption.
SECTION  792.  48.396 (2) (dm) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.396 (2) (dm)  Upon request of a court having jurisdiction over actions 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 672 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  792
affecting the family, an attorney responsible for support enforcement under s. 59.53 
(6) (a) or a party to a paternity proceeding under subch. IX of ch. 767, the party [s 
attorney or the guardian ad litem for the child who is the subject of that proceeding 
to review or be provided with information from the records of the court assigned to 
exercise jurisdiction under this chapter and ch. 938 relating to the paternity of a 
child for the purpose of determining the paternity of the child or for the purpose of 
rebutting the presumption of paternity parentage under s. 891.405, 891.407, or 
891.41 (1), the court assigned to exercise jurisdiction under this chapter and ch. 938 
shall open for inspection by the requester its records relating to the paternity of the 
child or disclose to the requester those records.
SECTION  793.  48.42 (1g) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.42 (1g) (a) 4.  A statement identifying any man person who has lived in a 
familial relationship with the child and who may be the father a parent of the child.
SECTION  794.  48.42 (1g) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.42 (1g) (b)  The petitioner shall notify any man person identified in the 
affidavit under par. (a) as an alleged father parent of his the right to file a 
declaration of paternal parental interest under s. 48.025 before the birth of the 
child, within 14 days after the birth of the child, or within 21 days after the date on 
which the notice is mailed, whichever is later; of the birth date or anticipated birth 
date of the child; and of the consequences of filing or not filing a declaration of 
paternal parental interest.  The petitioner shall include with the notice a copy of the 
form required to file a declaration of paternal parental interest under s. 48.025.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 673 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  794
The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the last-known address of the alleged 
father parent.
SECTION  795.  48.42 (1g) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.42 (1g) (c)  If an affidavit under par. (a) is not filed with the petition, notice 
shall be given to an alleged father parent under sub. (2).
SECTION  796.  48.42 (2) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.42 (2) (b) 1.  A person who has filed an unrevoked declaration of paternal 
parental interest under s. 48.025 before the birth of the child or within 14 days after 
the birth of the child.
SECTION  797.  48.42 (2) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.42 (2) (b) 2.  A person or persons alleged to the court to be the father a 
parent of the child or who may, based upon the statements of the mother parent 
who gave birth to the child or other information presented to the court, be the father 
parent of the child unless that person has waived the right to notice under s. 48.41 
(2) (c).
SECTION  798.  48.42 (2) (bm) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.42 (2) (bm) 1.  A person who has filed an unrevoked declaration of paternal 
parental interest under s. 48.025 before the birth of the child, within 14 days after 
the birth of the child, or within 21 days after a notice under sub. (1g) (b) is mailed, 
whichever is later.
SECTION  799.  48.422 (6) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.422 (6) (a)  In the case of a nonmarital child who is not adopted or whose 
parents do not subsequently intermarry under s. 767.803 and for whom paternity 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 674 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  799
has not been established, or for whom a declaration of paternal parental interest 
has not been filed under s. 48.025 within 14 days after the date of birth of the child 
or, if s. 48.42 (1g) (b) applies, within 21 days after the date on which the notice 
under s. 48.42 (1g) (b) is mailed, the court shall hear testimony concerning the 
paternity parentage of the child.  Based on the testimony, the court shall determine 
whether all interested parties who are known have been notified under s. 48.42 (2) 
and (2g) (ag).  If not, the court shall adjourn the hearing and order appropriate 
notice to be given.
SECTION  800.  48.422 (7) (bm) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.422 (7) (bm)  Establish whether a proposed adoptive parent of the child has 
been identified.  If a proposed adoptive parent of the child has been identified and 
the proposed adoptive parent is not a relative of the child, the court shall order the 
petitioner to submit a report to the court containing the information specified in s. 
48.913 (7).  The court shall review the report to determine whether any payments or 
agreement to make payments set forth in the report are coercive to the birth parent 
of the child or to an alleged to or presumed father parent of the child or are 
impermissible under s. 48.913 (4).  Making any payment to or on behalf of the any 
birth parent of the child, an, alleged or presumed father parent of the child, or the 
child conditional in any part upon transfer or surrender of the child or the 
termination of parental rights or the finalization of the adoption creates a 
rebuttable presumption of coercion.  Upon a finding of coercion, the court shall 
dismiss the petition or amend the agreement to delete any coercive conditions, if the 
parties agree to the amendment.  Upon a finding that payments which that are 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 675 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  800
impermissible under s. 48.913 (4) have been made, the court may dismiss the 
petition and may refer the matter to the district attorney for prosecution under s. 
948.24 (1).  This paragraph does not apply if the petition was filed with a petition 
for adoptive placement under s. 48.837 (2).
SECTION  801.  48.422 (7) (br) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.422 (7) (br)  Establish whether any person has coerced a birth parent or 
any alleged or presumed father parent of the child in violation of s. 48.63 (3) (b) 5.  
Upon a finding of coercion, the court shall dismiss the petition.
SECTION  802.  48.423 (2) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.423 (2) (d)  That the person has complied with the requirements of the state 
where the mother birth parent previously resided or was located to protect and 
preserve his paternal or her parental interests in matters affecting the child.
SECTION  803.  48.432 (1) (am) 2. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.432 (1) (am) 2. b.  If there is no adjudicated father, the husband spouse of 
the mother at the time the individual or adoptee is conceived or born, or when the 
parents intermarry under s. 767.803.
SECTION  804 .  Subchapter IX (title) of chapter 48 [precedes 48.44] of the 
statutes is amended to read:
CHAPTER 48
SUBCHAPTER IX 
JURISDICTION OVER PERSON 17 
OR OLDER ADULTS
SECTION  805.  48.44 of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 676 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  805
48.44   Jurisdiction over persons 17 or older adults.   The court has 
jurisdiction over persons 17 years of age or older adults as provided under ss. 
48.133, 48.355 (4), 48.357 (6), 48.365 (5), and 48.45 and as otherwise specifically 
provided in this chapter.
SECTION  806.  48.45 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.45 (1) (a)  If in the hearing of a case of a child alleged to be in a condition 
described in s. 48.13 it appears that any person 17 years of age or older adult has 
been guilty of contributing to, encouraging, or tending to cause by any act or 
omission, such that condition of the child, the judge may make orders with respect 
to the conduct of such that person in his or her relationship to the child, including 
orders determining the ability of the person to provide for the maintenance or care 
of the child and directing when, how, and from where funds for the maintenance or 
care shall be paid.
SECTION  807.  48.45 (1) (am) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.45 (1) (am)  If in the hearing of a case of an unborn child and the unborn 
child[s expectant mother alleged to be in a condition described in s. 48.133 it 
appears that any person 17 years of age or over adult has been guilty of contributing 
to, encouraging, or tending to cause by any act or omission, such that condition of 
the unborn child and expectant mother, the judge may make orders with respect to 
the conduct of such that person in his or her relationship to the unborn child and 
expectant mother.
SECTION  808.  48.45 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.45 (3)  If it appears at a court hearing that any person 17 years of age or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 677 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  808
older adult has violated s. 948.40, the judge shall refer the record to the district 
attorney for criminal proceedings as may be warranted in the district attorney [s 
judgment.  This subsection does not prevent prosecution of violations of s. 948.40 
without the prior reference by the judge to the district attorney, as in other criminal 
cases.
SECTION  809.  48.48 (8p) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.48 (8p)  To reimburse tribes and county departments, from the 
appropriation appropriations under s. 20.437 (1) (bn) and (kz), for unexpected or 
unusually high-cost out-of-home care placements of Indian children by tribal 
courts, other than placements to which s. 938.485 (4) applies.  In this subsection, 
Xunusually high-cost out-of-home care placements Y means the amount by which the 
cost to a tribe or to a county department of out-of-home care placements of Indian 
children by tribal courts, other than placements to which s. 938.485 (4) applies, 
exceeds $50,000 in a fiscal year.
SECTION  810.  48.48 (8r) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.48 (8r)  To reimburse county departments, the county department under s. 
46.215, and Indian tribes, from the appropriations under s. 20.437 (1) (dd), (kL), 
and (pd), for subsidized guardianship payments made under s. 48.623 (1) (1r) or (6), 
including guardianships of children ordered by tribal courts.
SECTION  811.  48.48 (8x) of the statutes is created to read:
48.48 (8x)  To pay for specialized services to children with high acuity needs in 
congregate care facilities, as defined under s. 48.685 (1) (ao), from the 
appropriations under s. 20.437 (1) (dd) and (pd).
SECTION  812.  48.481 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 678 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  812
48.481   (title)  Grants for children [s community Youth support 
programs.
SECTION  813 .  48.481 (2) of the statutes is renumbered 48.481 (2) (b) and 
amended to read:
48.481 (2) (b)  The From the appropriation under s. 20.437 (1) (bc), the 
department shall distribute at least $231,700 in each fiscal year funds for the 
purpose of assisting any of the following individuals who attain, if the individual is 
under the age of 23, to make the transition from out-of-home care to a successful 
adulthood:
1.  An individual who attained the age of 18 while residing in a foster home, 
group home, or residential care center for children and youth, in the home of a 
relative other than a parent, or in a supervised independent living arrangement to 
make the transition from out-of-home care to a successful adulthood out-of-home 
care.
(c)  Public or private agencies or organizations are eligible for funding under 
this subsection.  No county department or Indian tribe may use funds provided 
under this subsection to replace funds previously used by the county department or 
Indian tribe for this purpose.
SECTION  814.  48.481 (2) (a) of the statutes is created to read:
48.481 (2) (a)  In this subsection, Xout-of-home care Y means the placement and 
care of a child by the department, a county department, or a tribal child welfare 
agency in a foster home, group home, or residential care center for children and 
youth, in the home of a relative other than a parent, in the home of like-kin, in the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 679 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  814
home of a person who is not a relative or like-kin, or in a supervised independent 
living arrangement.
SECTION  815.  48.481 (2) (b) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
48.481 (2) (b) 2.  An individual who resided in out-of-home care for at least 6 
months after his or her 16th birthday.
SECTION  816.  48.481 (2) (b) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
48.481 (2) (b) 3.  An individual who was placed under a guardianship under s. 
48.977 on or after his or her 16th birthday.
SECTION  817.  48.481 (2) (b) 4. of the statutes is created to read:
48.481 (2) (b) 4.  An individual who was adopted on or after his or her 16th 
birthday following time spent in out-of-home care.
SECTION  818.  48.483 of the statutes is created to read:
48.483   Grants for out-of-school time programs.   (1)  In this section, Xout-
of-school time program Y means a structured program or activity that meets all of 
the following conditions:
(a)  To the extent practicable, the program or activity is led by adult mentors 
using evidence-based or evidence-informed practices and is provided to school-age 
children before school, after school, or during the summer.
(b)  The program or activity does not supplant instructional services provided 
by a school or result in academic credit for students.
(c)  The program or activity relates to one or more of the following topics:
1.  Improving social, emotional, academic, or career readiness competencies.
2.  Reducing negative behaviors, including violence and crime, tobacco use, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 680 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  818
alcohol and substance abuse, disengagement from school, school suspension, 
truancy, and health-compromising behaviors.
3.  Providing a safe out-of-school time environment.
4.  Engaging in career exploration or formal or informal work-based learning.
(2)  From the appropriation under s. 20.437 (2) (fg), the department shall 
award grants to out-of-school time programs for the purpose of expanding 
opportunities for school-age children.
(3)  The department shall promulgate rules to implement this section.
SECTION  819.  48.487 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.487 (1m)   T RIBAL  FAMILY  SERVICES  GRANTS .  From the appropriation 
account appropriations under s. 20.437 (1) (bd) and (js), the department may 
distribute tribal family services grants to the elected governing bodies of the Indian 
tribes in this state.  An elected governing body that receives a grant under this 
subsection may expend the grant moneys received for any of the purposes specified 
in subs. (2), (3) (b), (4m) (b), (5) (b), (6), and (7) as determined by that body.
SECTION  820.  48.49 of the statutes is created to read:
48.49   Benefits eligibility screening.   (1)  The department and each county 
department shall periodically screen each child under the placement and care of the 
department or county department under this chapter or ch. 938, other than 
children placed with kinship care providers receiving payments under s. 48.57 (3m) 
or (3n), to determine whether the child is eligible for federal or state benefits.
(2)  If a child in out-of-home care is found to be eligible for federal or state 
benefits under sub. (1), the department or county department shall do all the 
following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 681 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  820
(a)  Apply for the benefits on behalf of the child following the procedures 
established by the department by rule, unless doing so would be contrary to the best 
interest of the child.
(b)  Ensure that the child, the child [s attorney or guardian ad litem, and the 
child[s parent, guardian, or Indian custodian receive proper and timely notice of any 
application for benefits, the results of an application for benefits, and any appeal of 
a denial of benefits that could be or is filed on behalf of the child.
(c)  Provide the child with training covering financial literacy and maintaining 
benefit eligibility prior to the child aging out of out-of-home care.
(3)  If the department or county department is appointed as representative 
payee for a child in out-of-home care who receives benefits under sub. (2), the 
department or county department shall do all the following:
(a)  Consistent with the best interests of the child, conserve the child [s benefits 
in protected accounts that avoid asset limitations for federal and state programs.
(b)  Provide a periodic accounting to the child, the child [s attorney or guardian 
ad litem, and the child [s parent, guardian, or Indian custodian regarding the 
conservation and use of the child [s benefits while the child is in the department or 
county department [s care.
(c)  Work with the child and the appropriate federal agency to return 
remaining funds to the child or another fiduciary once the child exits out-of-home 
care.
(4)  The department may take any necessary steps to facilitate statewide 
compliance with this section.
(5)  The department or a county department may contract with a public or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 682 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  820
private agency to fulfill the requirements of this section.  The department may 
contract with a public or private agency to fulfill the requirements of this section on 
behalf of a county department.
(6)  State or federal benefits received by the department or a county 
department on behalf of a child may not be used by the department or a county 
department to pay for the costs of caring for the child in out-of-home care.  The 
department or a county department may use the child [s federal benefits for the 
child[s unmet needs beyond what the agency is obligated to, is required to, or has 
agreed to provide as permitted by rules promulgated under sub. (7).
(7)  The department shall promulgate rules to implement this section.  
SECTION  821.  48.526 (3) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.526 (3) (e)  The department may carry forward $500,000 or transfer to the 
appropriation account under s. 20.437 (1) (kp) 10 percent of its funds allocated 
under this subsection and not encumbered expended or carried forward under par. 
(dm) by counties by December 31, whichever is greater, to the next 2 calendar years.  
The department may transfer moneys from or within s. 20.437 (1) (cj) or (q) to 
accomplish this purpose.  The department may allocate these transferred moneys to 
counties with persistently high rates of juvenile arrests for serious offenses during 
the next 2 calendar years to improve community-based juvenile delinquency-related 
services, as defined in s. 46.011 (1c).  The allocation does not affect a county [s base 
allocation.
SECTION  822.  48.526 (3) (em) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  823.  48.526 (7) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.526 (7)  A LLOCATIONS  OF FUNDS .  (intro.)  Within the limits of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 683 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  823
availability of the appropriations under s. 20.437 (1) (cj), (o), and (q), the 
department shall allocate funds for community youth and family aids for the period 
beginning on July 1, 2021 2025, and ending on June 30, 2023 and for the 2023 fiscal 
biennium 2027, as provided in this subsection to county departments under ss. 
46.215, 46.22, and 46.23 as follows:
SECTION  824.  48.526 (7) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.526 (7) (a)  For community youth and family aids under this section, 
amounts not to exceed $47,740,750 $48,089,350 for the last 6 months of 2023, 
$95,481,500 2025, $101,138,500 for 2024 2026, and $47,740,750 $51,610,850 for the 
first 6 months of 2025 2027.
SECTION  825.  48.526 (7) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.526 (7) (b) (intro.)  Of the amounts specified in par. (a), the department 
shall allocate $2,000,000 for the last 6 months of 2023 2025, $4,000,000 for 2024 
2026, and $2,000,000 for the first 6 months of 2025 2027 to counties based on each 
of the following factors weighted equally:
SECTION  826.  48.526 (7) (bm) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.526 (7) (bm)  Of the amounts specified in par. (a), the department shall 
allocate $6,250,000 for the last 6 months of 2023 2025, $12,500,000 for 2024 2026, 
and $6,250,000 for the first 6 months of 2025 2027 to counties based on each 
county[s proportion of the number of juveniles statewide who are placed in a 
juvenile correctional facility or a secured residential care center for children and 
youth during the most recent 3-year period for which that information is available.
SECTION  827.  48.526 (7) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.526 (7) (c)  Of the amounts specified in par. (a), the department shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 684 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  827
allocate $1,053,200 for the last 6 months of 2023 2025, $2,106,500 for 2024 2026, 
and $1,053,300 for the first 6 months of 2025 2027 to counties based on each of the 
factors specified in par. (b) 1. to 3. weighted equally, except that no county may 
receive an allocation under this paragraph that is less than 93 percent nor more 
than 115 percent of the amount that the county would have received under this 
paragraph if the allocation had been distributed only on the basis of the factor 
specified in par. (b) 3.
SECTION  828.  48.526 (7) (e) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  829.  48.526 (7) (h) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  830.  48.526 (8) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  831.  48.5275 of the statutes is created to read:
48.5275   Seventeen-year-old juvenile justice aids.   Notwithstanding s. 
48.526, from the appropriation under s. 20.437 (1) (cL), beginning on January 1, 
2026, the department shall reimburse counties for the costs under s. 48.526 (2) (c) 
associated with juveniles who were alleged to have violated a state or federal 
criminal law or any civil law or municipal ordinance at age 17.
SECTION  832.  48.528 of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
48.528   Youth justice system improvement program.   From the 
appropriations under s. 20.437 (1) (cm) and (kp), in each fiscal year, the department 
may expend funds for the following purposes:
(1)  To fund programs that enhance diversion, prevention, or early 
intervention to reduce the number of justice-involved youth, as well as programs 
that promote successful outcomes for all justice-involved youth.  To determine 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 685 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  832
eligibility for a payment under this subsection, the department shall require a 
county or other provider to submit a plan for the expenditure of the payment.
(2)  To address emergencies related to community youth and family aids under 
s. 48.526.
(3)  To fund activities required of the department under s. 48.526 (1).
SECTION  833.  48.563 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.563 (2)  COUNTY  ALLOCATION .  For children and family services under s. 
48.569 (1) (d), the department shall distribute not more than $101,154,200 
$104,969,500 in fiscal year 2021-22 2025-26 and $101,162,800 $110,869,200 in 
fiscal year 2022-23.  In fiscal year 2023-24, the department shall distribute 
$101,551,400.  In fiscal year 2024-25, the department shall distribute $101,939,600 
2026-27.
SECTION  834.  48.57 (3m) (a) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
48.57 (3m)  (a) 1m.  XCounty department Y means a county department under 
s. 46.215, 46.22, or 46.23.
SECTION  835.  48.57 (3m) (am) (intro.) of the statutes, as affected by 2023 
Wisconsin Act 119, is amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (am) (intro.)  From the appropriations under s. 20.437 (1) (dd) and 
(2) (dz), (md), (me), and (s), the department shall reimburse counties having 
populations of less than 750,000 for payments made under this subsection and shall 
make payments under this subsection in a county having a population of 750,000 or 
more.  In a county having a population of 750,000 or more, the department shall 
make payments under this subsection or shall reimburse a county department for 
payments made under this subsection from the appropriations under s. 20.437 (1) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 686 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  835
(dd) and (pd).  Subject to par. (ap), and if all of the following conditions are met, 
beginning on January 1, 2026, a county department and, in a county having a 
population of 750,000 or more, the department or a county department shall make 
monthly payments per month to a kinship care provider who is providing care and 
maintenance for a child in the amount of $375 beginning on January 1, 2024, to a 
kinship care provider who is providing care and maintenance for a child if all of the 
following conditions are met $463 for a child under 5 years of age; $507 for a child 5 
to 11 years of age; $575 for a child 12 to 14 years of age; and $601 for a child 15 years 
of age or over:
SECTION  836.  48.57 (3m) (am) 2. of the statutes is renumbered 48.57 (3m) 
(am) 2. (intro.) and amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (am) 2. (intro.)  The county department or department determines 
that the child meets one or more of the following conditions:
a.  The child meets one or more of the criteria specified in s. 48.13, 938.12, or 
938.13, that the.
b.  The child would be at risk of meeting one or more of those the criteria 
specified in s. 48.13 or 938.13 if the child were to remain in his or her home or, if.
c.  If the child is 18 years of age or over, that the child would meet or be at risk 
of meeting one or more of those the criteria as specified in this subdivision in s. 
48.13 or 938.13 if the child were under 18 years of age.
SECTION  837.  48.57 (3m) (am) 4m. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (am) 4m.  Subject to sub. (3p) (fm) 1. and 2., the kinship care 
provider states that he or she does not have any arrests or convictions that could 
adversely affect the child or the kinship care provider [s ability to care for the child 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 687 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  837
and that no adult resident, as defined in sub. (3p) (a) 1., and no employee or 
prospective employee of the kinship care provider who would have regular contact 
with the child has any arrests or convictions that could adversely affect the child or 
the kinship care provider [s ability to care for the child.
SECTION  838.  48.57 (3m) (an) of the statutes is created to read:
48.57 (3m)  (an)  In addition to the monthly payments  for kinship care under 
par. (am), the department or the county department may make payments for 
exceptional circumstances to enable siblings or a minor parent and minor children 
to reside together and for initial clothing allowances to a kinship care provider who 
is providing care and maintenance for a child residing in the home of the kinship 
care provider who is receiving a monthly rate under par. (am), commensurate with 
the needs of the child, according to the rules promulgated by the department under 
par. (i) 3.
SECTION  839.  48.57 (3m) (ap) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (ap) 1.  Subject to subds. 2. and 3., the county department or, in a 
county having a population of 750,000 or more, the department or the county 
department may make payments under par. (am) to a kinship care provider who is 
providing care and maintenance for a child who is placed in the home of the kinship 
care provider under a court order for no more than 60 days after the date on which 
the county department or department received under par. (am) 1. the completed 
application of the kinship care provider for a license to operate a foster home or, if 
the application is approved or denied or the kinship care provider is otherwise 
determined to be ineligible for licensure within those 60 days, until the date on 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 688 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  839
which the application is approved or denied or the kinship care provider is 
otherwise determined to be ineligible for licensure.
SECTION  840.  48.57 (3m) (ap) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (ap) 3.  Notwithstanding that an application of a kinship care 
provider specified in subd. 1. is denied or the kinship care provider is otherwise 
determined to be ineligible for licensure, the county department or, in a county 
having a population of 750,000 or more, the department or the county department 
may make payments under par. (am) to the kinship care provider for as long as the 
conditions specified in par. (am) 1. to 6. continue to apply if the county department 
or department submits to the court information relating to the background 
investigation specified in par. (am) 4., an assessment of the safety of the kinship 
care provider [s home and the ability of the kinship care provider to care for the 
child, and a recommendation that the child remain in the home of the kinship care 
provider and the court, after considering that information, assessment, and 
recommendation, orders the child to remain in the kinship care provider [s home.  If 
the court does not order the child to remain in the kinship care provider [s home, the 
court shall order the county department or department to request a change in 
placement under s. 48.357 (1) (am) or 938.357 (1) (am).  Any person specified in s. 
48.357 (2m) (a) or 938.357 (2m) (a) may also request a change in placement.
SECTION  841.  48.57 (3m) (ar) and (at) of the statutes are created to read:
48.57 (3m)  (ar)  In addition to the monthly payments  for kinship care under 
par. (ap), the department or, with the department [s approval, the county 
department may make emergency payments for kinship care to kinship care 
providers who are providing care and maintenance for children residing in the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 689 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  841
home of kinship care providers under a court order if any of the following conditions 
are met:
1.  The governor has declared a state of emergency pursuant to s. 323.10, or 
the federal government has declared a major disaster under 42 USC 68, that covers 
the locality of the home of the kinship care provider.
2.  This state has received federal funding to be used for child welfare purposes 
due to an emergency or disaster declared for the locality of the home of the kinship 
care provider.
3.  The department has determined that conditions in this state or in the 
locality of the home of the kinship care provider have resulted in a temporary 
increase in the costs borne by kinship care providers.  Those conditions may include 
any of the following:
a.  A pandemic or other public health threat.
b.  A natural disaster.
c.  Unplanned school closures of 5 consecutive days or more.
(at)  The department shall determine the amount of emergency payments 
under par. (ar) based on available funding.
SECTION  842.  48.57 (3m) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (b) 1.  The county department or, in a county having a population 
of 750,000 or more, the department or a county department if the county 
department is making the payments shall refer to the attorney responsible for 
support enforcement under s. 59.53 (6) (a) the name of the parent or parents of a 
child for whom a payment is made under par. (am).  This subdivision does not apply 
to a child 18 years of age or over for whom a payment is made under par. (am).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 690 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  843
SECTION  843.  48.57 (3m) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (c)  The county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or a county department if the county department 
is making the payments shall require the parent or parents of a child for whom a 
payment is made under par. (am) to initiate or continue health care insurance 
coverage for the child.
SECTION  844.  48.57 (3m) (cm) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (cm)  A kinship care provider who receives a payment under par. 
(am) for providing care and maintenance for a child is not eligible to receive a 
payment under sub. (3n) or s. 48.62 (4) or 48.623 (1) (1r) or (6) for that child.
SECTION  845.  48.57 (3m) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (d)  A county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or a county department if the county department 
is making the payments shall review a placement of a child for which the county 
department or department makes payments under par. (am) not less than every 12 
months after the county department or department begins making those payments 
to determine whether the conditions specified in par. (am) continue to exist.  If 
those conditions do not continue to exist, the county department or department 
shall discontinue making those payments.
SECTION  846.  48.57 (3m) (g) 2. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (g) 2. (intro.)  If a recipient requests a hearing within 10 days after 
the date of notice that his or her payments under par. (am) are being discontinued, 
those payments may not be discontinued until a decision is rendered after the 
hearing but payments made pending the hearing decision may be recovered by the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 691 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  846
department if the contested action or failure to act is upheld.  The department shall 
promptly notify the county department of the county in which the recipient resides 
or, if the recipient resides in a county having a population of 750,000 or more, the 
subunit of the department administering of the kinship care program in that 
county or the county department that the recipient has requested a hearing.  
Payments under par. (am) shall be discontinued if any of the following applies:
SECTION  847.  48.57 (3m) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3m)  (h)  A county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or a county department may recover an 
overpayment made under par. (am) from a kinship care provider who continues to 
receive payments under par. (am) by reducing the amount of the kinship care 
provider [s monthly payment.  The department may by rule specify other methods 
for recovering overpayments made under par. (am).  A county department that 
recovers an overpayment under this paragraph due to the efforts of its officers and 
employees may retain a portion of the amount recovered, as provided by the 
department by rule.
SECTION  848.  48.57 (3m) (i) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
48.57 (3m)  (i) 3.  Rules governing the provision of payments for exceptional 
circumstances to enable siblings or a minor parent and minor children to reside 
together and for initial clothing allowances for a child residing in the home of a 
kinship care provider who is receiving a monthly rate under par. (am).
SECTION  849.  48.57 (3m) (j) of the statutes is created to read:
48.57 (3m)  (j)  The department may promulgate rules governing the provision 
of emergency payments under par. (ar).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 692 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  850
SECTION  850.  48.57 (3n) (a) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
48.57 (3n) (a) 1m.  XCounty department Y means a county department under s. 
46.215, 46.22, or 46.23.
SECTION  851 .  48.57 (3n) (am) (intro.) of the statutes, as affected by 2023 
Wisconsin Act 119, is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (am) (intro.)  From the appropriations under s. 20.437 (2) (dz), (md), 
(me), and (s), the department shall reimburse counties having populations of less 
than 750,000 for payments made under this subsection and shall make payments 
under this subsection in a county having a population of 750,000 or more.  In a 
county having a population of 750,000 or more, the department shall make 
payments under this subsection or shall reimburse a county department for 
payments made under this subsection from the appropriations under s. 20.437 (1) 
(dd) and (pd).  Subject to par. (ap), and if all of the following conditions are met, 
beginning on January 1, 2026, a county department and, in a county having a 
population of 750,000 or more, the department or a county department shall make 
monthly payments to a long-term kinship care provider who is providing care and 
maintenance for each a child per month in the amount of $375 beginning on 
January 1, 2024, to a long-term kinship care provider who is providing care and 
maintenance for that child if all of the following conditions are met $463 for a child 
under 5 years of age; $507 for a child 5 to 11 years of age; $557 for a child 12 to 14 
years of age; and $601 for a child 15 years of age or over:
SECTION  852.  48.57 (3n) (am) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (am) 4.  The county department or department conducts a 
background investigation under sub. (3p) of the long-term kinship care provider, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 693 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  852
employees and prospective employees of the long-term kinship care provider who 
have or would have regular contact with the child for whom the payments would be 
made and any other adult resident, as defined in sub. (3p) (a) 1., of the long-term 
kinship care provider [s home to determine if the long-term kinship care provider, 
employee, prospective employee or adult resident has any arrests or convictions that 
are likely to adversely affect the child or the long-term kinship care provider [s 
ability to care for the child.
SECTION  853.  48.57 (3n) (am) 4m. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (am) 4m.  Subject to sub. (3p) (fm) 1m. and 2m., the long-term 
kinship care provider states that he or she does not have any arrests or convictions 
that could adversely affect the child or the long-term kinship care provider [s ability 
to care for the child and that, to the best of the long-term kinship care provider [s 
knowledge, no adult resident, as defined in sub. (3p) (a) 1., and no employee or 
prospective employee of the long-term kinship care provider who would have 
regular contact with the child has any arrests or convictions that could adversely 
affect the child or the long-term kinship care provider [s ability to care for the child.
SECTION  854.  48.57 (3n) (an) of the statutes is created to read:
48.57 (3n) (an)  In addition to the monthly payments  for long-term kinship 
care under par. (am), the department or the county department may make 
payments for exceptional circumstances to enable siblings or a minor parent and 
minor children to reside together and for initial clothing allowances to a long-term 
kinship care provider who is providing care and maintenance for a child residing in 
the home of the long-term kinship care provider who is receiving a monthly rate 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 694 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  854
under par. (am), commensurate with the needs of the child, according to the rules 
promulgated by the department under par. (i) 2.
SECTION  855.  48.57 (3n) (ap) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (ap) 1.  Subject to subds. 2. and 3., the county department or, in a 
county having a population of 750,000 or more, the department or the county 
department may make payments under par. (am) to a long-term kinship care 
provider who is providing care and maintenance for a child who is placed in the 
home of the long-term kinship care provider for no more than 60 days after the date 
on which the county department or department received under par. (am) 1. the 
completed application of the long-term kinship care provider for a license to operate 
a foster home or, if the application is approved or denied or the long-term kinship 
care provider is otherwise determined to be ineligible for licensure within those 60 
days, until the date on which the application is approved or denied or the long-term 
kinship care provider is otherwise determined to be ineligible for licensure.
SECTION  856.  48.57 (3n) (ap) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (ap) 3.  Notwithstanding that an application of a long-term kinship 
care provider specified in subd. 1. is denied or the long-term kinship care provider 
is otherwise determined to be ineligible for licensure, the county department or, in 
a county having a population of 750,000 or more, the department  or the county 
department may make payments under par. (am) to the long-term kinship care 
provider until an event specified in par. (am) 6. a. to f. occurs if the county 
department or department submits to the court information relating to the 
background investigation specified in par. (am) 4., an assessment of the safety of the 
long-term kinship care provider [s home and the ability of the long-term kinship 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 695 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  856
care provider to care for the child, and a recommendation that the child remain in 
the home of the long-term kinship care provider and the court, after considering 
that information, assessment, and recommendation, orders the child to remain in 
the long-term kinship care provider [s home.  If the court does not order the child to 
remain in the kinship care provider [s home, the court shall order the county 
department or department to request a change in placement under s. 48.357 (1) 
(am) or 938.357 (1) (am) or to request a termination of the guardianship order 
under s. 48.977 (7).  Any person specified in s. 48.357 (2m) (a) or 938.357 (2m) (a) 
may also request a change in placement and any person who is authorized to file a 
petition for the appointment of a guardian for the child may also request a 
termination of the guardianship order.
SECTION  857.  48.57 (3n) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (b) 1.  The county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or a county department if the county department 
is making the payments shall refer to the attorney responsible for support 
enforcement under s. 59.53 (6) (a) the name of the parent or parents of a child for 
whom a payment is made under par. (am).  This subdivision does not apply to a 
child 18 years of age or over for whom a payment is made under par. (am).
SECTION  858.  48.57 (3n) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (c)  The county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or a county department if the county department 
is making the payments shall require the parent or parents of a child for whom a 
payment is made under par. (am) to initiate or continue health care insurance 
coverage for the child.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 696 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  859
SECTION  859.  48.57 (3n) (cm) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (cm)  A long-term kinship care provider who receives a payment 
under par. (am) for providing care and maintenance for a child is not eligible to 
receive a payment under sub. (3m) or s. 48.62 (4) or 48.623 (1) (1r) or (6) for that 
child.
SECTION  860.  48.57 (3n) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (d)  The county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or a county department if the county department 
is making the payments shall, at least once every 12 months after the county 
department or department begins making payments under this subsection, 
determine whether any of the events specified in par. (am) 6. a. to f. have occurred.  
If any such events have occurred, the county department or department shall 
discontinue making those payments.
SECTION  861.  48.57 (3n) (g) 2. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (g) 2. (intro.)  If a recipient requests a hearing within 10 days after 
the date of notice that his or her payments under par. (am) are being discontinued, 
those payments may not be discontinued until a decision is rendered after the 
hearing but payments made pending the hearing decision may be recovered by the 
department if the contested action or failure to act is upheld.  The department shall 
promptly notify the county department of the county in which the recipient resides 
or, if the recipient resides in a county having a population of 750,000 or more, the 
subunit of the department administering of the long-term kinship care program in 
that county or the county department that the recipient has requested a hearing.  
Payments under par. (am) shall be discontinued if any of the following applies:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 697 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  862
SECTION  862.  48.57 (3n) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (h)  A county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or a county department may recover an 
overpayment made under par. (am) from a long-term kinship care provider who 
continues to receive payments under par. (am) by reducing the amount of the long-
term kinship care provider [s monthly payment.  The department may by rule 
specify other methods for recovering overpayments made under par. (am).  A county 
department that recovers an overpayment under this paragraph due to the efforts 
of its officers and employees may retain a portion of the amount recovered, as 
provided by the department by rule.
SECTION  863.  48.57 (3n) (i) of the statutes is renumbered 48.57 (3n) (i) (intro.) 
and amended to read:
48.57 (3n) (i) (intro.)  The department shall promulgate rules to implement 
this subsection.  Those rules shall include rules all of the following:
1.  Rules governing the provision of long-term kinship care payments for the 
care and maintenance of a child after the child attains 18 years of age.
SECTION  864.  48.57 (3n) (i) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
48.57 (3n) (i) 2.  Rules governing the provision of payments for exceptional 
circumstances to enable siblings or a minor parent and minor children to reside 
together and for initial clothing allowances for children residing in a home of a long-
term kinship care provider who is receiving a monthly rate under par. (am).
SECTION  865 .  48.57 (3p) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 48.57 (3p) (a) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (a) (intro.)  In this subsection, Xadult:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 698 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  865
1.  XAdult resident Y means a person 18 years of age or over who lives at the 
home of a person who has applied for or is receiving payments under sub. (3m) or 
(3n) with the intent of making that home his or her home or who lives for more than 
30 days cumulative in any 6-month period at the home of a person who has applied 
for or is receiving payments under sub. (3m) or (3n).
SECTION  866.  48.57 (3p) (a) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
48.57 (3p) (a) 2.  XCounty department Y means a county department under s. 
46.215, 46.22, 46.23.
SECTION  867.  48.57 (3p) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (b) 1.  After receipt of an application for payments under sub. (3m) 
or (3n), the county department or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or 
more, the department or the county department, with the assistance of the 
department of justice, shall conduct a background investigation of the applicant.
SECTION  868.  48.57 (3p) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (b) 2.  The county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or the county department, with the assistance of 
the department of justice, may conduct a background investigation of any person 
who is receiving payments under sub. (3m) at the time of review under sub. (3m) (d) 
or at any other time that the county department or department considers to be 
appropriate.
SECTION  869.  48.57 (3p) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (b) 3.  The county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or the county department, with the assistance of 
the department of justice, may conduct a background investigation of any person 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 699 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  869
who is receiving payments under sub. (3n) at any time that the county department 
or department considers to be appropriate.
SECTION  870.  48.57 (3p) (c) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (c) 1.  After receipt of an application for payments under sub. (3m) 
or (3n), the county department or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or 
more, the department or the county department, with the assistance of the 
department of justice, shall, in addition to the investigation under par. (b) 1., 
conduct a background investigation of all employees and prospective employees of 
the applicant who have or would have regular contact with the child for whom those 
payments are being made and of each adult resident.
SECTION  871.  48.57 (3p) (c) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (c) 2.  The county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or the county department, with the assistance of 
the department of justice, may conduct a background investigation of any of the 
employees or prospective employees of any person who is receiving payments under 
sub. (3m) who have or would have regular contact with the child for whom those 
payments are being made and of each adult resident at the time of review under 
sub. (3m) (d) or at any other time that the county department or department 
considers to be appropriate.
SECTION  872.  48.57 (3p) (c) 2m. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (c) 2m.  The county department or, in a county having a population 
of 750,000 or more, the department or the county department, with the assistance 
of the department of justice, may conduct a background investigation of any of the 
employees or prospective employees of any person who is receiving payments under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 700 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  872
sub. (3n) who have or would have regular contact with the child for whom payments 
are being made and of each adult resident at any time that the county department 
or department considers to be appropriate.
SECTION  873.  48.57 (3p) (c) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (c) 3.  Before a person who is receiving payments under sub. (3m) or 
(3n) may employ any person in a position in which that person would have regular 
contact with the child for whom those payments are being made or permit any 
person to be an adult resident, the county department or, in a county having a 
population of 750,000 or more, the department or the county department, with the 
assistance of the department of justice, shall conduct a background investigation of 
the prospective employee or prospective adult resident unless that person has 
already been investigated under subd. 1., 2. or 2m.
SECTION  874.  48.57 (3p) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (d)  If the person being investigated under par. (b) or (c) is a 
nonresident, or at any time within the 5 years preceding the date of the application 
has been a nonresident, or if the county department or, in a county having a 
population of 750,000 or more, the department or the county department 
determines that the person [s employment, licensing or state court records provide a 
reasonable basis for further investigation, the county department or department 
shall require the person to be fingerprinted on 2 fingerprint cards, each bearing a 
complete set of the person [s fingerprints, or by other technologies approved by law 
enforcement agencies.  The department of justice may provide for the submission of 
the fingerprint cards or fingerprints by other technologies to the federal bureau of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 701 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  874
investigation for the purposes of verifying the identity of the person fingerprinted 
and obtaining records of his or her criminal arrest and conviction.
SECTION  875.  48.57 (3p) (e) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (e) (intro.)  Upon request, a person being investigated under par. (b) 
or (c) shall provide the county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or the county department with all of the following 
information:
SECTION  876.  48.57 (3p) (fm) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (fm) 1.  The county department or, in a county having a population 
of 750,000 or more, the department or the county department may provisionally 
approve the making of payments under sub. (3m) based on the applicant [s 
statement under sub. (3m) (am) 4m.  The county department or department may 
not finally approve the making of payments under sub. (3m) unless the county 
department or department receives information from the department of justice 
indicating that the conviction record of the applicant under the law of this state is 
satisfactory according to the criteria specified in par. (g) 1. to 3. or payment is 
approved under par. (h) 4.  The county department or department may make 
payments under sub. (3m) conditioned on the receipt of information from the federal 
bureau of investigation indicating that the person [s conviction record under the law 
of any other state or under federal law is satisfactory according to the criteria 
specified in par. (g) 1. to 3.
SECTION  877.  48.57 (3p) (fm) 1m. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (fm) 1m.  The county department or, in a county having a 
population of 750,000 or more, the department or the county department may not 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 702 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  877
enter into the agreement under sub. (3n) (am) 6. unless the county department or 
department receives information from the department of justice relating to the 
conviction record of the applicant under the law of this state and that record 
indicates either that the applicant has not been arrested or convicted or that the 
applicant has been arrested or convicted but the director of the county department 
or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or more, the director of the county 
department or the person designated by the secretary to review conviction records 
under this subdivision determines that the conviction record is satisfactory because 
it does not include any arrest or conviction that the director or person designated by 
the secretary determines is likely to adversely affect the child or the applicant [s 
ability to care for the child.  The county department or, in a county having a 
population of 750,000 or more, the department or the county department may make 
payments under sub. (3n) conditioned on the receipt of information from the federal 
bureau of investigation indicating that the person [s conviction record under the law 
of any other state or under federal law is satisfactory because the conviction record 
does not include any arrest or conviction that the director of the county department 
or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or more, the director of the county 
department or the person designated by the secretary to review conviction records 
under this subdivision determines is likely to adversely affect the child or the 
applicant [s ability to care for the child.
SECTION  878.  48.57 (3p) (fm) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (fm) 2.  A person receiving payments under sub. (3m) may 
provisionally employ a person in a position in which that person would have regular 
contact with the child for whom those payments are being made or provisionally 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 703 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  878
permit a person to be an adult resident if the person receiving those payments 
states to the county department or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or 
more, the department or the county department that the employee or adult resident 
does not have any arrests or convictions that could adversely affect the child or the 
ability of the person receiving payments to care for the child.  A person receiving 
payments under sub. (3m) may not finally employ a person in a position in which 
that person would have regular contact with the child for whom those payments are 
being made or finally permit a person to be an adult resident until the county 
department or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or more, the department 
or the county department receives information from the department of justice 
indicating that the person [s conviction record under the law of this state is 
satisfactory according to the criteria specified in par. (g) 1. to 3. and the county 
department or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or more, the department 
or the county department so advises the person receiving payments under sub. (3m) 
or until a decision is made under par. (h) 4. to permit a person who is receiving 
payments under sub. (3m) to employ a person in a position in which that person 
would have regular contact with the child for whom payments are being made or to 
permit a person to be an adult resident and the county department or, in a county 
having a population of 750,000 or more, the department or the county department 
so advises the person receiving payments under sub. (3m).  A person receiving 
payments under sub. (3m) may finally employ a person in a position in which that 
person would have regular contact with the child for whom those payments are 
being made or finally permit a person to be an adult resident conditioned on the 
receipt of information from the county department or, in a county having a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 704 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  878
population of 750,000 or more, the department or the county department that the 
federal bureau of investigation indicates that the person [s conviction record under 
the law of any other state or under federal law is satisfactory according to the 
criteria specified in par. (g) 1. to 3.
SECTION  879.  48.57 (3p) (fm) 2m. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (fm) 2m.  A person receiving payments under sub. (3n) may 
provisionally employ a person in a position in which that person would have regular 
contact with the child for whom those payments are being made or provisionally 
permit a person to be an adult resident if the person receiving those payments 
states to the county department or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or 
more, the department or the county department that, to the best of his or her 
knowledge, the employee or adult resident does not have any arrests or convictions 
that could adversely affect the child or the ability of the person receiving payments 
to care for the child.  A person receiving payment under sub. (3n) may not finally 
employ a person in a position in which that person would have regular contact with 
the child for whom those payments are being made or finally permit a person to be 
an adult resident until the county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or the county department receives information 
from the department of justice relating to the person [s conviction record under the 
law of this state and that record indicates either that the person has not been 
arrested or convicted or that the person has been arrested or convicted but the 
director of the county department or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or 
more, the director of the county department or the person designated by the 
secretary to review conviction records under this subdivision determines that the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 705 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  879
conviction record is satisfactory because it does not include any arrest or conviction 
that is likely to adversely affect the child or the ability of the person receiving 
payments to care for the child and the county department or department so advises 
the person receiving payments under sub. (3n).  A person receiving payments under 
sub. (3n) may finally employ a person in a position in which that person would have 
regular contact with the child for whom those payments are being made or finally 
permit a person to be an adult resident conditioned on the receipt of information 
from the county department or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or more, 
the department or the county department that the federal bureau of investigation 
indicates that the person [s conviction record under the law of any other state or 
under federal law is satisfactory because the conviction record does not include any 
arrest or conviction that the director of the county department or, in a county 
having a population of 750,000 or more, the director of the county department or 
the person designated by the secretary to review conviction records under this 
subdivision determines is likely to adversely affect the child or the ability of the 
person receiving payments to care for the child.
SECTION  880.  48.57 (3p) (g) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (g) (intro.)  Except as provided in par. (h), the county department or, 
in a county having a population of 750,000 or more, the department or the county 
department may not make payments to a person applying for payments under sub. 
(3m) and a person receiving payments under sub. (3m) may not employ a person in 
a position in which that person would have regular contact with the child for whom 
those payments are being made or permit a person to be an adult resident if any of 
the following applies:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 706 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  881
SECTION  881.  48.57 (3p) (h) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (h) 2.  The request for review shall be filed with the director of the 
county department or, in a county having a population of 750,000 or more, with the 
director of the county department or the person designated by the secretary to 
receive requests for review filed under this subdivision.  If the governing body of an 
Indian tribe has entered into an agreement under sub. (3t) to administer the 
program under this subsection and sub. (3m), the request for review shall be filed 
with the person designated by that governing body to receive requests for review 
filed under this subdivision.
SECTION  882.  48.57 (3p) (h) 3. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (h) 3. (intro.)  The director of the county department, the person 
designated by the governing body of an Indian tribe or, in a county having a 
population of 750,000 or more, the director of the county department or the person 
designated by the secretary shall review the denial of payments or the prohibition 
on employment or being an adult resident to determine if the conviction record on 
which the denial or prohibition is based includes any arrests, convictions, or 
penalties that are likely to adversely affect the child or the ability of the kinship 
care provider to care for the child.  In reviewing the denial or prohibition, the 
director of the county department, the person designated by the governing body of 
the Indian tribe or the person designated by the secretary shall consider all of the 
following factors:
SECTION  883.  48.57 (3p) (h) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (h) 4.  If the director of the county department, the person 
designated by the governing body of the Indian tribe or, in a county having a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 707 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  883
population of 750,000 or more, the director of the county department or the person 
designated by the secretary determines that the conviction record on which the 
denial of payments or the prohibition on employment or being an adult resident is 
based does not include any arrests, convictions, or penalties that are likely to 
adversely affect the child or the ability of the kinship care provider to care for the 
child, the director of the county department, the person designated by the 
governing body of the Indian tribe, or the person designated by the secretary may 
approve the making of payments under sub. (3m) or may permit a person receiving 
payments under sub. (3m) to employ a person in a position in which that person 
would have regular contact with the child for whom payments are being made or 
permit a person to be an adult resident.
SECTION  884.  48.57 (3p) (hm) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (hm)  A county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or the county department may not make 
payments to a person under sub. (3n) and a person receiving payments under sub. 
(3n) may not employ a person in a position in which that person would have regular 
contact with the child for whom payments are being made or permit a person to be 
an adult resident if the director of the county department or, in a county having a 
population of 750,000 or more, the director of the county department or the person 
designated by the secretary to review conviction records under this paragraph 
determines that the person has any arrest or conviction that is likely to adversely 
affect the child or the person [s ability to care for the child.  A person who is 
aggrieved by a decision under this paragraph may obtain a hearing on that decision 
under sub. (3n) (g) as provided in sub. (3n) (f).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 708 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  885
SECTION  885.  48.57 (3p) (i) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (i)  A county department and, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or a county department shall keep confidential all 
information received under this subsection from the department of justice or the 
federal bureau of investigation.  Such information is not subject to inspection or 
copying under s. 19.35.
SECTION  886.  48.57 (3p) (j) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.57 (3p) (j)  A county department or, in a county having a population of 
750,000 or more, the department or a county department may charge a fee for 
conducting a background investigation under this subsection.  The fee may not 
exceed the reasonable cost of conducting the investigation.
SECTION  887.  48.62 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.62 (4) (a)  Monthly payments in foster care shall be provided according to 
the rates specified in this subsection.  Beginning on January 1, 2024, the rates for 
care and maintenance provided for a child of any age by a foster home that is 
certified to provide level one care, as defined in the rules promulgated under sub. 
(8) (a), are $375 and 2026, for care and maintenance provided by a foster home that 
is certified to provide care at a  any level of care that is higher than level one care, 
the rates are all of the following:
1.  $441 $463 for a child under 5 years of age.
2.  $483 $507 for a child 5 to 11 years of age.
3.  $548 $575 for a child 12 to 14 years of age.
4.  $572 $601 for a child 15 years of age or over.
SECTION  888.  48.62 (5) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 709 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  888
48.62 (5) (a)  In addition to the grants for basic maintenance and 
supplemental payments for foster care under sub. (4), the department or, with the 
department [s approval, the county department or licensed child welfare agency may 
make emergency payments for foster care to foster homes that are receiving 
payments under sub. (4) if any of the following conditions are met:
1.  The governor has declared a state of emergency pursuant to s. 323.10, or 
the federal government has declared a major disaster under 42 USC 68, that covers 
the locality of the foster home.
2.  This state has received federal funding to be used for child welfare purposes 
due to an emergency or disaster declared for the locality of the foster home.
3.  The department has determined that conditions in this state or in the 
locality of the foster home have resulted in a temporary increase in the costs borne 
by foster homes.  Those conditions may include any of the following:
a.  A pandemic or other public health threat.
b.  A natural disaster.
c.  Unplanned school closures of 5 consecutive days or more.
(b)  The department shall determine the amount of emergency payments 
under par. (a) based on available funding.
SECTION  889.  48.62 (8m) of the statutes is created to read:
48.62 (8m)   The department may promulgate rules governing the provision of 
emergency payments to foster homes under sub. (5).
SECTION  890.  48.623 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 48.623 (1r), and 48.623 
(1r) (c), as renumbered, is amended to read:
48.623 (1r) (c)  An order under s. 48.345, 48.357, 48.363, 48.365, 938.34, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 710 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  890
938.345, 938.357, 938.363, or 938.365 or a tribal court order under a substantially 
similar tribal law placing the child, or continuing the placement of the child, 
outside of the child [s home has been terminated, or any proceeding specified in s. 
48.977 (2) (a) in which the child has been adjudged to be in need of protection or 
services specified in s. 48.977 (2) (a) or delinquent has been dismissed, as provided 
in s. 48.977 (3r) (a).
SECTION  891.  48.623 (1g) of the statutes is created to read:
48.623 (1g)  In this section, Xcounty department Y means a county department 
under s. 46.215, 46.22, or 46.23.
SECTION  892.  48.623 (1m) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (1m)   D URATION  OF ELIGIBILITY .  (intro.)  Subsidized guardianship 
payments under sub. (1) (1r) or (6) may be continued after the child attains 18 years 
of age if any of the following applies:
SECTION  893.  48.623 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (2)  SUBSIDIZED  GUARDIANSHIP  AGREEMENT .  (intro.)  Before a county 
department, an Indian tribe, or the department may approve the provision of 
subsidized guardianship payments under sub. (1) (1r) to a proposed guardian, the 
county department, Indian tribe, or department shall negotiate and enter into a 
written, binding subsidized guardianship agreement with the proposed guardian 
and provide the proposed guardian with a copy of the agreement.  A subsidized 
guardianship agreement or an amended subsidized guardianship agreement may 
also name a prospective successor guardian of the child to assume the duty and 
authority of guardianship on the death or incapacity of the guardian.  A successor 
guardian is eligible for monthly subsidized guardianship payments under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 711 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  893
section only if the successor guardian is named as a prospective successor guardian 
of the child in a subsidized guardianship agreement or amended subsidized 
guardianship agreement that was entered into before the death or incapacity of the 
guardian, the conditions specified in sub. (6) (bm) are met, and the court appoints 
the successor guardian to assume the duty and authority of guardianship as 
provided in s. 48.977 (5m).  A subsidized guardianship agreement shall specify all 
of the following:
SECTION  894.  48.623 (2) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (2) (e)  That, in determining eligibility for adoption assistance under s. 
48.975 and 42 USC 673 for the care of the child, the placement of the child in the 
home of the guardian and any payments made under sub. (1) (1r) shall be 
considered never to have been made.
SECTION  895.  48.623 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (3) (a)  Except as provided in this paragraph, the county department 
shall provide the monthly payments under sub. (1) (1r) or (6).  An Indian tribe that 
has entered into an agreement with the department under sub. (8) shall provide the 
monthly payments under sub. (1) (1r) or (6) for guardianships of children ordered by 
the tribal court, or a county department may provide the monthly payments under 
sub. (1) (1r) or (6) for guardianships of children ordered by the tribal court if the 
county department has entered into an agreement with the governing body of an 
Indian tribe to provide those payments.  The county department or Indian tribe 
shall provide those payments from moneys received under s. 48.48 (8r).  The 
department shall reimburse county departments and Indian tribes for the cost of 
subsidized guardianship payments, including payments made by county 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 712 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  895
departments for guardianships of children ordered by tribal courts, from the 
appropriations under s. 20.437 (1) (dd), (kL), and (pd).  In a county having a 
population of 750,000 or more or in the circumstances specified in s. 48.43 (7) (a) or 
48.485 (1), the department shall provide the monthly payments under sub. (1) (1r) 
or (6).  The department shall provide those payments from the appropriations 
under s. 20.437 (1) (cx) and (mx) or the county department shall provide those 
payments from moneys received under s. 48.48 (8r). The department shall 
reimburse county departments and Indian tribes for the cost of subsidized 
guardianship payments, including payments made by county departments for 
guardianships of children ordered by tribal courts, from the appropriations under s. 
20.437 (1) (dd), (kL), and (pd).
SECTION  896.  48.623 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (3) (b)  The county department or, as provided in par. (a), an Indian 
tribe or the department shall determine the initial amount of a monthly payment 
under sub. (1) (1r) or (6) for the care of a child based on the circumstances of the 
guardian and the needs of the child.  That amount may not exceed the amount 
received under s. 48.62 (4) or a substantially similar tribal law by the guardian of 
the child for the month immediately preceding the month in which the 
guardianship order was granted.  A guardian or an interim caretaker who receives 
a monthly payment under sub. (1) (1r) or (6) for the care of a child is not eligible to 
receive a payment under s. 48.57 (3m) or (3n) or 48.62 (4) for the care of that child.
SECTION  897.  48.623 (3) (c) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (3) (c) 2.  Annually, a county department, Indian tribe, or the 
department shall review an agreement that has been amended under subd. 1. to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 713 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  897
determine whether the substantial change in circumstances that was the basis for 
amending the agreement continues to exist.  If that substantial change in 
circumstances continues to exist, the agreement, as amended, shall remain in 
effect.  If that substantial change in circumstances no longer exists, the county 
department, Indian tribe, or department shall offer to decrease the amount of the 
monthly subsidized guardianship payments provided under sub. (1) (1r) based on 
criteria established by the department under sub. (7) (c).  If the decreased amount 
of those payments is agreed to by the person receiving those payments, the county 
department, Indian tribe, or department shall amend the agreement in writing to 
specify the decreased amount of those payments.  If the decreased amount of those 
payments is not agreed to by the person receiving those payments, that person may 
appeal the decision of the county department, Indian tribe, or department 
regarding the decrease under sub. (5).
SECTION  898.  48.623 (3) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (3) (d)  The department, an Indian tribe, or a county department may 
recover an overpayment made under sub. (1) (1r) or (6) from a guardian or interim 
caretaker who continues to receive those payments by reducing the amount of the 
person[s monthly payment.  The department may by rule specify other methods for 
recovering those overpayments.  A county department or Indian tribe that recovers 
an overpayment under this paragraph due to the efforts of its officers and 
employees may retain a portion of the amount recovered, as provided by the 
department by rule.
SECTION  899.  48.623 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (4)  ANNUAL  REVIEW .  A county department, an Indian tribe, or the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 714 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  899
department shall review a placement of a child for which the county department, 
Indian tribe, or department makes payments under sub. (1) (1r) not less than every 
12 months after the county department, Indian tribe, or department begins making 
those payments to determine whether the child and the guardian remain eligible 
for those payments.  If the child or the guardian is no longer eligible for those 
payments, the county department, Indian tribe, or department shall discontinue 
making those payments.
SECTION  900.  48.623 (5) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (5) (a)  Any person whose application for payments under sub. (1) (1r) is 
not acted on promptly or is denied on the grounds that a condition specified in sub. 
(1) (1r) has not been met and any person whose payments under sub. (1) (1r) are 
decreased under sub. (3) (c) 2. or discontinued under sub. (4) may petition the 
department under par. (b) for a review of that action or failure to act.  Review is 
unavailable if the action or failure to act arose more than 45 days before submission 
of the petition for review.
SECTION  901.  48.623 (5) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (5) (b) 2.  If a recipient requests a hearing within 10 days after the date 
of notice that his or her payments under sub. (1) (1r) are being decreased or 
discontinued, those payments may not be decreased or discontinued until a decision 
is rendered after the hearing but payments made pending the hearing decision may 
be recovered by the department if the contested action or failure to act is upheld.  
The department shall promptly notify the county department, Indian tribe, or 
subunit of the department whose action is the subject of the hearing that the 
recipient has requested a hearing.  Payments under sub. (1) (1r) shall be decreased 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 715 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  901
or discontinued if the recipient is contesting a state law or a change in state law and 
not the determination of the payment made on the recipient [s behalf.
SECTION  902.  48.623 (5) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (5) (b) 3.  The recipient shall be promptly informed in writing if his or 
her payments under sub. (1) (1r) are to be decreased or discontinued pending the 
hearing decision.
SECTION  903.  48.623 (6) (am) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (6) (am) (intro.)  On the death, incapacity, resignation, or removal of a 
guardian receiving payments under sub. (1) (1r), the county department, Indian 
tribe, or department providing those payments shall provide monthly subsidized 
guardianship payments in the amount specified in sub. (3) (b) for a period of up to 
12 months to an interim caretaker if all of the following conditions are met:
SECTION  904.  48.623 (6) (bm) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (6) (bm) (intro.)  On the death or incapacity of a guardian receiving 
payments under sub. (1) (1r), the county department, an Indian tribe, or the 
department providing those payments shall provide monthly subsidized 
guardianship payments in the amount specified in sub. (3) (b) to a person named as 
a prospective successor guardian of the child in a subsidized guardianship 
agreement or amended subsidized guardianship agreement that was entered into 
before the death or incapacity of the guardian if all of the following conditions are 
met and the court appoints the person as successor guardian to assume the duty 
and authority of guardianship as provided in s. 48.977 (5m):
SECTION  905.  48.623 (6) (bm) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 716 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  905
48.623 (6) (bm) 6.  Any order under s. 48.345, 48.357, 48.363, 48.365, 938.34, 
938.345, 938.357, 938.363, or 938.365 or a tribal court order under a substantially 
similar tribal law placing the child, or continuing the placement of the child, 
outside of the child [s home has been terminated, or any proceeding specified in s. 
48.977 (2) (a) in which the child has been adjudged to be in need of protection or 
services specified in s. 48.977 (2) (a) or delinquent has been dismissed, as provided 
in s. 48.977 (3r) (b).
SECTION  906.  48.623 (7) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (7) (a)  A rule defining the substantial change in circumstances under 
which a person receiving monthly subsidized guardianship payments under sub. (1) 
(1r) may request that an agreement made under sub. (2) be amended to increase the 
amount of those payments.
SECTION  907.  48.623 (7) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (7) (c)  Rules establishing the criteria for determining the amount of 
the decrease in monthly subsidized guardianship payments that the department 
shall offer under sub. (3) (c) 2. if a substantial change in circumstances no longer 
exists.  The criteria shall provide that the amount of the decrease offered by the 
department under sub. (3) (c) 2. may not result in a monthly subsidized 
guardianship payment that is less than the initial monthly subsidized 
guardianship payment provided for the child under sub. (1) (1r).
SECTION  908.  48.623 (7) (dm) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (7) (dm)  Rules establishing the conditions that must be met in order 
for a person specified in sub. (1) (1r) (b) 1. c. to be eligible for monthly subsidized 
guardianship payments under sub. (1) (1r).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 717 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  909
SECTION  909.  48.623 (8) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.623 (8) (b)  A county department may provide the monthly payments under 
sub. (1) (1r) or (6) for guardianships of children ordered by the tribal court if the 
county department has entered into an agreement with the governing body of an 
Indian tribe to provide those payments.
SECTION  910.  48.63 (3) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.63 (3) (b) 4.  Before a child may be placed under subd. 1., the department, 
county department, or child welfare agency making the placement and the 
proposed adoptive parent or parents shall enter into a written agreement that 
specifies who is financially responsible for the cost of providing care for the child 
prior to the finalization of the adoption and for the cost of returning the child to the 
parent who has custody of the child if the adoption is not finalized.  Under the 
agreement, the department, county department, or child welfare agency or the 
proposed adoptive parent or parents, but not the any birth parent of the child or any 
alleged or presumed father parent of the child, shall be financially responsible for 
those costs.
SECTION  911.  48.63 (3) (b) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.63 (3) (b) 5.  Prior to termination of parental rights to the child, no person 
may coerce a birth parent of the child or any alleged or presumed father parent of 
the child into refraining from exercising his or her right to withdraw consent to the 
transfer or surrender of the child or to termination of his or her parental rights to 
the child, to have reasonable visitation or contact with the child, or to otherwise 
exercise his or her parental rights to the child.
SECTION  912.  48.645 (3) of the statutes is repealed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 718 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  913
SECTION  913.  48.82 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.82 (1) (a)   A husband and wife Spouses jointly, or either the husband or 
wife if the other spouse is of a parent of the minor.
SECTION  914.  48.837 (1r) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.837 (1r) (d)  Before a child may be placed under par. (a), the department, 
county department, or child welfare agency making the placement and the 
proposed adoptive parent or parents shall enter into a written agreement that 
specifies who is financially responsible for the cost of providing care for the child 
prior to the finalization of the adoption and for the cost of returning the child to the 
parent who has custody of the child if the adoption is not finalized.  Under the 
agreement, the department, county department, or child welfare agency or the 
proposed adoptive parent or parents, but not the any birth parent of the child or any 
alleged or presumed father parent of the child, shall be financially responsible for 
those costs.
SECTION  915.  48.837 (1r) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.837 (1r) (e)  Prior to termination of parental rights to the child, no person 
may coerce a birth parent of the child or any alleged or presumed father parent of 
the child into refraining from exercising his or her right to withdraw consent to the 
transfer or surrender of the child or to termination of his or her parental rights to 
the child, to have reasonable visitation or contact with the child, or to otherwise 
exercise his or her parental rights to the child.
SECTION  916.  48.837 (6) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.837 (6) (b)  At the beginning of the hearing held under sub. (2), the court 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 719 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  916
shall review the report that is submitted under s. 48.913 (6).  The court shall 
determine whether any payments or the conditions specified in any agreement to 
make payments are coercive to the any birth parent of the child or to an alleged or 
presumed father parent of the child or are impermissible under s. 48.913 (4).  
Making any payment to or on behalf of the a birth parent of the child, an, alleged or 
presumed father parent of the child, or the child conditional in any part upon 
transfer or surrender of the child or the termination of parental rights or the 
finalization of the adoption creates a rebuttable presumption of coercion.  Upon a 
finding of coercion, the court shall dismiss the petitions under subs. (2) and (3) or 
amend the agreement to delete any coercive conditions, if the parties agree to the 
amendment.  Upon a finding that payments which that are impermissible under s. 
48.913 (4) have been made, the court may dismiss the petition and may refer the 
matter to the district attorney for prosecution under s. 948.24 (1).
SECTION  917.  48.837 (6) (br) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.837 (6) (br)  At the hearing on the petition under sub. (2), the court shall 
determine whether any person has coerced a birth parent or any alleged or 
presumed father parent of the child in violation of sub. (1r) (e).  Upon a finding of 
coercion, the court shall dismiss the petitions under subs. (2) and (3).
SECTION  918.  48.913 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.913 (1) (a)  Preadoptive counseling for a birth parent of the child or an 
alleged or presumed father parent of the child.
SECTION  919.  48.913 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 720 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  919
48.913 (1) (b)  Post-adoptive counseling for a birth parent of the child or an 
alleged or presumed father parent of the child.
SECTION  920.  48.913 (1) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.913 (1) (h)  Legal and other services received by a birth parent of the child, 
an alleged or presumed father parent of the child, or the child in connection with 
the adoption.
SECTION  921.  48.913 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.913 (2)  P AYMENT  OF EXPENSES  WHEN  BIRTH  PARENT  IS RESIDING  IN 
ANOTHER  STATE .  (intro.)  Notwithstanding sub. (1), the proposed adoptive parents of 
a child or a person acting on behalf of the proposed adoptive parents of a child may 
pay for an expense of a birth parent of the child or an alleged or presumed father 
parent of the child if the birth parent or the alleged or presumed father parent was 
residing in another state when the payment was made and when the expense was 
incurred and if all of the following apply:
SECTION  922.  48.913 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.913 (2) (b)  The state in which the birth parent or the alleged or presumed 
father parent was residing when the payment was made permits the payment of 
that expense by the proposed adoptive parents of the child.
SECTION  923.  48.913 (2) (c) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.913 (2) (c) (intro.)  A listing of all payments made under this subsection, a 
copy of the statutory provisions of the state in which the birth parent or the alleged 
or presumed father parent was residing when the payments were made that permit 
those payments to be made by the proposed adoptive parents of the child, and a copy 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 721 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  923
of all orders entered in the state in which the birth parent or the alleged or 
presumed father parent was residing when the payments were made that relate to 
the payment of expenses of the birth parent or the alleged or presumed father 
parent by the proposed adoptive parents of the child is submitted to the court as 
follows:
SECTION  924.  48.913 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.913 (3)  METHOD  OF PAYMENT .  Any payment under sub. (1) or (2) shall be 
made directly to the provider of a good or service except that a payment under sub. 
(1) or (2) may be made to a birth parent of the child or to an alleged or presumed 
father parent of the child as reimbursement of an amount previously paid by the 
birth parent or by the alleged or presumed father parent if documentation is 
provided showing that the birth parent or alleged or presumed father parent has 
made the previous payment.
SECTION  925.  48.913 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.913 (4)  OTHER  PAYMENTS  PROHIBITED .  The proposed adoptive parents of a 
child or a person acting on behalf of the proposed adoptive parents may not make 
any payments to or on behalf of a birth parent of the child, an alleged or presumed 
father parent of the child, or the child except as provided in subs. (1) and (2).
SECTION  926.  48.913 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.913 (7)  REPORT  TO THE COURT ; CONTENTS  REQUIRED .  The report required 
under sub. (6) shall include a list of all transfers of anything of value made or 
agreed to be made by the proposed adoptive parents or by a person acting on their 
behalf to a birth parent of the child, an alleged or presumed father parent of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 722 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  926
child, or the child, on behalf of a birth parent of the child, an alleged or presumed 
father parent of the child, or the child, or to any other person in connection with the 
pregnancy, the birth of the child, the placement of the child with the proposed 
adoptive parents, or the adoption of the child by the proposed adoptive parents.  The 
report shall be itemized and shall show the goods or services for which payment was 
made or agreed to be made.  The report shall include the dates of each payment, the 
names and addresses of each attorney, doctor, hospital, agency, or other person or 
organization receiving any payment from the proposed adoptive parents or a person 
acting on behalf of the proposed adoptive parents in connection with the pregnancy, 
the birth of the child, the placement of the child with the proposed adoptive parents, 
or the adoption of the child by the proposed adoptive parents.
SECTION  927.  48.977 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.977   (title)  Appointment of guardians for certain children or 
juveniles in need of protection or services or juveniles adjudged 
delinquent.
SECTION  928.  48.977 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.977 (2) (a)  That the child has been adjudged to be in need of protection or 
services under s. 48.13 (1), (2), (3), (3m), (4), (4m), (5), (8), (9), (10), (10m), (11), or 
(11m) or 938.13 (4) and been placed, or continued in a placement, outside of his or 
her home pursuant to one or more court orders under s. 48.345, 48.357, 48.363, 
48.365, 938.345, 938.357, 938.363, or 938.365 or that the child has been so adjudged 
and placement of the child in the home of a guardian under this section has been 
recommended under s. 48.33 (1) or 938.33 (1), or that the child has been adjudged to 
be delinquent under s. 938.12 and has been placed, or continued in a placement, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 723 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  928
outside his or her home pursuant to one or more court orders under s. 938.34, 
938.357, 938.363, or 938.365 or that the child has been so adjudged and placement 
of the child in the home of a guardian under this section has been recommended 
under s. 938.33 (1).
SECTION  929.  48.977 (3r) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.977 (3r) (a)  Guardian.   Subsidized guardianship payments under s. 48.623 
(1) (1r) may not be made to a guardian of a child unless a subsidized guardianship 
agreement under s. 48.623 (2) is entered into before the guardianship order is 
granted and the court either terminates any order specified in sub. (2) (a) or 
dismisses any proceeding in which the child has been adjudicated in need of 
protection or services or has been adjudged delinquent as specified in sub. (2) (a).  If 
a child[s permanency plan calls for placement of the child in the home of a guardian 
and the provision of monthly subsidized guardianship payments to the guardian, 
the petitioner under sub. (4) (a) shall include in the petition under sub. (4) (b) a 
statement of the determinations made under s. 48.623 (1) (1r) and a request for the 
court to include in the court [s findings under sub. (4) (d) a finding confirming those 
determinations.  If the court confirms those determinations, appoints a guardian 
for the child under sub. (2), and either terminates any order specified in sub. (2) (a) 
or dismisses any proceeding in which the child is adjudicated to be in need of 
protection or services or is adjudged delinquent as specified in sub. (2) (a), the 
county department or, as provided in s. 48.623 (3) (a), an Indian tribe or the 
department shall provide monthly subsidized guardianship payments to the 
guardian under s. 48.623 (1) (1r).
SECTION  930.  48.977 (3r) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 724 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  930
48.977 (3r) (b)  Successor guardian.   Subsidized guardianship payments 
under s. 48.623 (6) (bm) may not be made to a successor guardian of a child unless 
the court makes a finding confirming that the successor guardian is named as a 
prospective successor guardian of the child in a subsidized guardianship agreement 
or amended subsidized guardianship agreement under s. 48.623 (2) that was 
entered into before the death or incapacity of the guardian and that the conditions 
specified in s. 48.623 (6) (bm) have been met, appoints the successor guardian to 
assume the duty and authority of guardianship as provided in sub. (5m), and either 
terminates any order specified in sub. (2) (a) or dismisses any proceeding in which 
the child has been adjudicated in need of protection or services or adjudged 
delinquent as specified in sub. (2) (a).  If the court makes that finding and 
appointment and either terminates such an order or dismisses such a proceeding, 
the county department or, as provided in s. 48.623 (3) (a), an Indian tribe or the 
department shall provide monthly subsidized guardianship payments to the 
successor guardian under s. 48.623 (6) (bm).
SECTION  931.  48.977 (4) (a) 8. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.977 (4) (a) 8.  The person representing the interests of the public under s. 
48.09, or, if the child has been placed pursuant to an order under ch. 938 or the 
child[s placement with the guardian is recommended under ch. 938, the person 
representing the interests of the public under s. 938.09.
SECTION  932.  48.977 (4) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.977 (4) (b) 3.  The date on which the child was adjudged in need of 
protection or services under s. 48.13 (1), (2), (3), (3m), (4), (4m), (5), (8), (9), (10), 
(10m), (11), or (11m) or 938.13 (4) and the dates on which the child has been placed, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 725 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  932
or continued in a placement, outside of his or her home pursuant to one or more 
court orders under s. 48.345, 48.357, 48.363, 48.365, 938.345, 938.357, 938.363, or 
938.365 or, if the child has been so adjudged, but not so placed, the date of the report 
under s. 48.33 (1) or 938.33 (1) in which placement of the child in the home of the 
person is recommended, or, if the child has been adjudged delinquent under s. 
938.12, the date on which the child was adjudged delinquent, and the dates on 
which the child has been placed, or continued in a placement, outside his or her 
home pursuant to one or more court orders under s. 938.34, 938.357, 938.363, or 
938.365 or, if the child has been so adjudged but not so placed, the date of the report 
under s. 938.33 (1).
SECTION  933.  48.977 (4) (c) 1. h. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.977 (4) (c) 1. h.  The person representing the interests of the public under s. 
48.09, or, if the child has been placed pursuant to an order under ch. 938, the person 
representing the interests of the public under s. 938.09.
SECTION  934.  48.977 (4) (i) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.977 (4) (i)  Effect of disposition on permanency review process.   After a 
disposition under par. (h), the child [s permanency plan shall continue to be 
reviewed under s. ss. 48.38 (5) and 938.38 (5), if applicable.
SECTION  935.  48.9795 (1) (a) 1. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
48.9795 (1) (a) 1. c.  Any person who has filed a declaration of paternal 
parental interest under s. 48.025, who is alleged to the court to be the father a 
parent of the child, or who may, based on the statements of the mother parent who 
gave birth to the child or other information presented to the court, be the father 
parent of the child.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 726 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  936
SECTION  936.  48.9795 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
48.9795 (1) (b)  XPartyY means the person petitioning for the appointment of a 
guardian for a child or any interested person other than a person who is alleged to 
the court to be the father a parent of the child or who may, based on the statements 
of the mother parent who gave birth to the child or other information presented to 
the court, be the father parent of the child.
SECTION  937.  49.132 of the statutes is created to read:
49.132   Child care partnership grant program.   (1)  In this section, 
Xbusiness Y means a governmental entity, an organization or enterprise operated for 
profit, or a nonprofit corporation.
(2)  The department may establish a grant program to award funding to 
businesses that provide or wish to provide child care services for their employees.  A 
grant awarded under this program may be used to reserve child care placements for 
local business employees, pay child care tuition, and other costs related to child 
care.
(3)  A business awarded a grant under this section shall provide matching 
funds equal to 10 percent or more of the amount awarded if the business has 50 or 
fewer employees and 15 percent or more of the amount awarded if the business has 
more than 50 employees.
(4)  The department may promulgate rules to administer this section, 
including to determine eligibility for a grant.
SECTION  938.  49.133 of the statutes is created to read:
49.133   Child care quality improvement program.   (1)  The department 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 727 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  938
may establish a program under which it may, from the appropriation under s. 
20.437 (2) (c) and the allocation under s. 49.175 (1) (qm), make monthly payments 
and monthly per-child payments to child care providers certified under s. 48.651, 
child care centers licensed under s. 48.65, and child care programs established or 
contracted for by a school board under s. 120.13 (14).  The department may 
investigate and recover from payment recipients under this section amounts 
overpaid or obtained through fraud.
(2)  If the department establishes the program under sub. (1), the department 
shall promulgate rules to implement the program, including establishing eligibility 
requirements and payment amounts and setting requirements for how recipients 
may use the payments.
SECTION  939.  49.1335 of the statutes is created to read:
49.1335   Child care access program.   (1)  In this section, Xfamily child care 
centerY has the meaning given in s. 49.136 (1) (j).
(2)  From the appropriation under s. 20.437 (2) (bp), the department shall 
enter into contracts with all of the following organizations, at the following 
amounts, to increase access to high-quality child care in this state:
(a)  Wonderschool, Inc., or a successor organization, at $4,500,000, to do any of 
the following:
1.  Increase the child care workforce in this state by launching an online 
software platform that is linked to the department [s website to connect child care 
providers with child care workers and a pool of substitute child care workers.
2.  Build child care capacity in this state.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 728 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  939
(b)  Wisconsin Early Childhood Association, Inc., at $5,500,000, to provide any 
of the following for child care providers or prospective child care providers:
1.  Assistance with licensing under s. 48.65 and certification under s. 48.651, 
prioritizing locations with a high need for child care services and child care 
providers that serve infants and toddlers.
2.  Coaching services and other support services, including for substitute child 
care workers.
3.  Tax education assistance for family child care centers.
SECTION  940.  49.1337 of the statutes is created to read:
49.1337   Child care water safety grant program.   From the appropriation 
under s. 20.437 (2) (ej), each fiscal year the department shall award a grant to 
Community Water Services, Inc., for the purpose of helping child care providers to 
access safe drinking water.
SECTION  941.  49.1385 of the statutes is amended to read:
49.1385   Grants for services for homeless and runaway youth.   The 
department may award not more than $400,000 $2,872,800 in each fiscal year in 
grants to support programs that provide services for homeless and runaway youth.
SECTION  942.  49.141 (1) (j) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.141 (1) (j) 1.  A biological natural parent.
SECTION  943.  49.141 (1) (j) 2. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  944.  49.148 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.148 (4) (a)  A Wisconsin works Works agency shall require a participant in 
a community service job or transitional placement who, after August 22, 1996, was 
convicted in any state or federal court of a felony that had as an element possession, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 729 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  944
use or distribution of a controlled substance to submit to a test for use of a 
controlled substance as a condition of continued eligibility.  If the test results are 
positive, the Wisconsin works Works agency shall decrease the presanction benefit 
amount for that participant by not more than 15 percent for not fewer than 12 
months, or for the remainder of the participant [s period of participation in a 
community service job or transitional placement, if less than 12 months.  If, at the 
end of 12 months, the individual is still a participant in a community service job or 
transitional placement and submits to another test for use of a controlled substance 
and if the results of the test are negative, the Wisconsin works Works agency shall 
discontinue the reduction under this paragraph.  In this subsection, Xcontrolled 
substance Y does not include tetrahydrocannabinols in any form, including 
tetrahydrocannabinols contained in marijuana, obtained from marijuana, or 
chemically synthesized.
SECTION  945.  49.155 (1g) (i) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  946.  49.155 (1m) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.155 (1m)   ELIGIBILITY .  (intro.)  Except as provided in sub. (3g) and subject 
to sub. (1s), the department shall determine, contract with a county department or 
agency to determine, or contract with a county department or agency to share 
determination of the eligibility of individuals residing in a particular geographic 
region or who are members of a particular Indian tribal unit for child care subsidies 
under this section.  Under this section, and subject to sub. (2), an individual may 
receive a subsidy for child care for a child who has not attained the age of 13 or, if 
the child is disabled, who has not attained the age of 19, if the individual meets all 
of the following conditions:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 730 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  947
SECTION  947.  49.155 (1m) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.155 (1m)  (a) (intro.)  Subject to sub. (2), the individual is a parent of a child 
who meets the requirement under s. 49.145 (2) (c) and who is under the age of 13 or, 
if the child is disabled, is under the age of 19; or is  a relative an individual who, 
under s. 48.57 (3m) or (3n) or 48.62, is providing care and maintenance for a child 
who meets the requirement under s. 49.145 (2) (c) and who is under the age of 13 or, 
if the child is disabled, is under the age of 19; and child care services for that child 
are needed in order for the individual to participate in an approved activity.  An 
individual who is eligible to receive a child care subsidy under this subsection shall 
remain eligible for that subsidy for a period of 3 months after the individual 
permanently ceases participation in the approved activity or until the department 
or the county department or agency redetermines the individual [s eligibility, 
whichever is earlier.  In this paragraph, Xapproved activity Y means any of the 
following:
SECTION  948.  49.155 (1m) (c) 1d. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.155 (1m)  (c) 1d. a.  Notwithstanding sub. (5) (b), if If the individual is 
already receiving a child care subsidy under this section and the gross income of the 
individual [s family exceeds 200 percent of the poverty line for a family the size of 
the individual [s family, the individual [s copayment amount under sub. (5) increases 
by $1 for every $3 by which the individual [s family [s gross income exceeds 200 
percent of the poverty line for a family the size of the individual [s family.  Beginning 
in fiscal year 2024-25, to the extent that the individual [s family [s gross income 
exceeds 200 percent of the poverty line for a family the size of the individual [s 
family, the individual [s copayment amount under sub. (5) increases by $1 for every 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 731 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  948
$5 individual may still receive a child care subsidy under this section unless the 
condition in subd. 1d. b. is met.
SECTION  949.  49.155 (1m) (c) 1d. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.155 (1m)  (c) 1d. b.  Notwithstanding subd. 1d. a., if If the gross income of an 
individual [s family exceeds 85 percent of the state median income for a family the 
size of the individual [s family, the individual is not eligible to receive a child care 
subsidy under this section.
SECTION  950.  49.155 (1m) (c) 1g. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.155 (1m)  (c) 1g.  If the individual is a foster parent of the child or a 
subsidized guardian or interim caretaker of the child under s. 48.623, the child [s 
biological natural or adoptive family has a gross income that is at or below 200 
percent of the poverty line.  In calculating the gross income of the child [s biological 
natural or adoptive family, the department or county department or agency 
determining eligibility shall include court-ordered child or family support 
payments received by the individual, if those support payments exceed $1,250 per 
month, and income described under s. 49.145 (3) (b) 1. and 3.
SECTION  951.  49.155 (1m) (c) 1h. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.155 (1m)  (c) 1h.  If the individual is a relative of the child, is providing care 
for the child under a court order, and is receiving payments under s. 48.57 (3m) or 
(3n) on behalf of the child, the child [s biological natural or adoptive family has a 
gross income that is at or below 200 percent of the poverty line.  In calculating the 
gross income of the child [s biological natural or adoptive family, the department or 
county department or agency determining eligibility shall include court-ordered 
child or family support payments received by the individual, if those support 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 732 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  951
payments exceed $1,250 per month, and income described under s. 49.145 (3) (b) 1. 
and 3.
SECTION  952.  49.155 (1m) (cm) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.155 (1m)  (cm) 3.   A relative of the child An individual who is providing care 
for the child under a court order and receiving payments under s. 48.57 (3m) or (3n) 
on behalf of the child.
SECTION  953.  49.155 (1s) of the statutes is created to read:
49.155 (1s)  PRESUMPTIVE  ELIGIBILITY .  (a)  The department may find an 
individual presumptively eligible for a child care subsidy while the department 
determines the individual [s actual eligibility under sub. (1m) if all the following 
conditions are met:
1.  The individual submits to the department a report establishing that the 
individual meets the conditions under sub. (1m).
2.  The department is able to plausibly assume that the individual meets the 
conditions under sub. (1m) based on the report under subd. 1.
(b)  Upon finding an individual presumptively eligible for child care subsidies 
under this subsection, the department shall immediately begin issuing benefits to 
the individual under sub. (3m).
(c)  An individual may be presumptively eligible for child care subsidies under 
this subsection for no more than 3 months.
(d)  If the department determines that an individual found presumptively 
eligible for child care subsidies under this subsection is actually ineligible for child 
care subsidies under sub. (1m), the department shall immediately discontinue 
issuing benefits to the individual under sub. (3m).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 733 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  954
SECTION  954.  49.155 (6) (e) 2., 3. and 5. of the statutes are repealed.
SECTION  955.  49.163 (2) (am) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.163 (2) (am) 2.  If over 25 years of age, be a biological natural or adoptive 
parent of a child under 18 years of age whose parental rights to the child have not 
been terminated or be a relative and primary caregiver of a child under 18 years of 
age.
SECTION  956.  49.163 (2) (am) 4. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  957.  49.163 (2) (am) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.163 (2) (am) 5.  Be ineligible Have not filed for unemployment insurance 
benefits or have filed but is not eligible to receive unemployment insurance benefits.
SECTION  958.  49.1632 of the statutes is created to read:
49.1632   Expanded Transform Milwaukee Jobs program and 
Transitional Jobs program.   From the appropriation under s. 20.437 (2) (fn), the 
department shall establish programs identical to the Transform Milwaukee Jobs 
program and Transitional Jobs program under s. 49.163 except that an individual 
is not required to satisfy the eligibility criteria under s. 49.163 (2) (am) 2. and 3. in 
order to participate.
SECTION  959.  49.1635 (1) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  960.  49.1635 (2) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  961.  49.1635 (3) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  962.  49.1635 (4) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  963.  49.1635 (5) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 49.1635 (1m) and 
amended to read:
49.1635 (1m)   From the allocation under s. 49.175 (1) (j), the department shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 734 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  963
make a grant of $500,000 $4,500,000 in each fiscal year to Wisconsin Trust Account 
Foundation, Inc., for distribution of annual awards of not more than $75,000 per 
year per program to programs that provide legal services to persons who are eligible 
under par. (b) 2. sub. (2m) (b) if all of the following apply:
(a)  Wisconsin Trust Account Foundation, Inc., submits a plan to the 
department detailing the proposed use of the grant; the proposed use of the grant 
conforms to the requirements under par. (b) sub. (2m); and the secretary of the 
department, or his or her designee, approves the plan.
(b)  Wisconsin Trust Account Foundation, Inc., enters into an agreement with 
the department that specifies the conditions for the use of the grant proceeds, and 
the conditions conform to the requirements under par. (b) sub. (2m) and include 
training, reporting, and auditing requirements.
(c)  Wisconsin Trust Account Foundation, Inc., agrees in writing to submit to 
the department the reports required under par. (c) sub. (3m) by the times required 
under par. (c) sub. (3m).
SECTION  964.  49.1635 (5) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 49.1635 (2m), and 
49.1635 (2m) (a), as renumbered, is amended to read:
49.1635 (2m)  (a)  Subject to subd. 3. par. (c), the grant may be used only to 
provide legal services in civil matters related to eviction, domestic abuse, or sexual 
abuse, or to restraining orders or injunctions for individuals at risk under s. 
813.123.
SECTION  965.  49.1635 (5) (c) of the statutes is renumbered 49.1635 (3m) and 
amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 735 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  965
49.1635 (3m)   For each fiscal year in which the department makes a grant 
under this subsection section, Wisconsin Trust Account Foundation, Inc., shall 
submit to the department, within 3 months after spending the full amount of that 
grant, a report detailing how the grant proceeds were used.  The department may 
not make a grant in a subsequent fiscal year unless Wisconsin Trust Account 
Foundation, Inc., submits the report under this paragraph subsection within the 
time required and the department determines that the grant proceeds were used in 
accordance with the approved plan under par. (a) 1. sub. (1m) (a), the agreement 
under par. (a) 2. sub. (1m) (b), and the requirements under par. (b) sub. (2m).
SECTION  966.  49.175 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (a)  Wisconsin Works benefits.   For Wisconsin Works benefits, 
$37,000,000 $26,806,500 in fiscal year 2021-22 2025-26 and $34,000,000 
$26,987,700 in fiscal year 2022-23.  In fiscal year 2023-24, for such benefits, 
$28,000,000.  In fiscal year 2024-25, for such benefits, $29,000,000 2026-27.
SECTION  967.  49.175 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (b)  Wisconsin Works agency contracts; job access loans.   For 
contracts with Wisconsin Works agencies under s. 49.143 and for job access loans 
under s. 49.147 (6), $54,009,700 $58,892,400 in fiscal year 2021-22 2025-26 and 
$57,071,200 $59,071,200 in each fiscal year thereafter 2026-27.
SECTION  968.  49.175 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (f)  Homeless case management services grants.   For grants to 
shelter facilities under s. 16.3085, $500,000 $1,000,000 in each fiscal year.  All 
moneys allocated under this paragraph shall be credited to the appropriation 
account under s. 20.505 (7) (kg).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 736 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  969
SECTION  969.  49.175 (1) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (g)  State administration of public assistance programs and 
overpayment collections.   For state administration of public assistance programs 
and the collection of public assistance overpayments, $17,231,100 $25,258,600 in 
fiscal year 2021-22 2025-26 and $17,482,300 $25,707,800 in fiscal year 2022-23.  In 
fiscal year 2023-24, for such purposes, $19,015,300.  In fiscal year 2024-25, for such 
purposes, $19,424,300 2026-27.
SECTION  970.  49.175 (1) (i) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (i)  Emergency assistance.   For emergency assistance under s. 
49.138 and for transfer to the department of administration for low-income energy 
or weatherization assistance programs, $6,000,000 $10,414,400 in each fiscal year 
2025-26 and $10,141,300 in fiscal year 2026-27.
SECTION  971.  49.175 (1) (j) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (j)  Grants for providing civil legal services.   For the grants under s. 
49.1635 (5) to Wisconsin Trust Account Foundation, Inc., for distribution to 
programs that provide civil legal services to low-income families, $500,000 
$4,500,000 in each fiscal year.
SECTION  972.  49.175 (1) (k) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (k)  Transform Milwaukee and Transitional Jobs programs.   For 
contract costs under the Transform Milwaukee Jobs program and the Transitional 
Jobs program under s. 49.163, $9,500,000 $12,475,000 in each fiscal year.
SECTION  973.  49.175 (1) (Lm) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (Lm)  Jobs for America [s Graduates.   For grants to the Jobs for 
America [s Graduates-Wisconsin to fund programs that improve social, academic, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 737 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  973
and employment skills of youth who are eligible to receive temporary assistance for 
needy families under 42 USC 601 et seq., in each fiscal year, $1,000,000 $2,000,000.
SECTION  974.  49.175 (1) (Lp) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  975.  49.175 (1) (ms) of the statutes is created to read:
49.175 (1) (ms)  Child support debt reduction.  For the child support debt 
reduction program for noncustodial parents under s. 49.226, $3,472,000 in fiscal 
year 2025-26 and $6,944,000 in fiscal year 2026-27.
SECTION  976.  49.175 (1) (p) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (p)  Direct child care services.   For direct child care services under s. 
49.155 or 49.257, $376,700,400 $438,582,000 in fiscal year 2021-22 2025-26 and 
$383,900,400 $459,111,600 in fiscal year 2022-23.  In fiscal year 2023-24, for such 
direct child care services, $368,834,800.  In fiscal year 2024-25, for such direct child 
care services, $428,779,700 2026-27.
SECTION  977.  49.175 (1) (q) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (q)  Child care state administration and licensing activities.   For 
state administration of child care programs under s. 49.155 and for child care 
licensing activities, $42,117,800 $52,983,800 in fiscal year 2021-22 2025-26 and 
$41,803,100 $53,723,400 in fiscal year 2022-23.  In fiscal year 2023-24, for such 
programs and activities, $45,796,000.  In fiscal year 2024-25, for such programs and 
activities, $45,570,300 2026-27.
SECTION  978.  49.175 (1) (qm) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (qm)  Quality care for quality kids.   For the child care quality 
improvement activities specified in ss. 49.133, 49.155 (1g) and 49.257, $16,683,700 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 738 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  978
$49,446,300 in each fiscal year 2022-23.  In fiscal year 2023-24, for such activities, 
$28,518,700.  In fiscal year 2024-25, for such activities, $46,018,700.
SECTION  979.  49.175 (1) (r) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (r)  Children of recipients of supplemental security income.   For 
payments made under s. 49.775 for the support of the dependent children of 
recipients of supplemental security income, $18,564,700 $19,262,100 in each fiscal 
year 2021-22 and $18,145,000 in fiscal year 2022-23.  In fiscal year 2023-24, for 
such payments, $9,699,900.  In fiscal year 2024-25, for such payments, $10,990,400.
SECTION  980.  49.175 (1) (s) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (s)  Kinship care and long-term kinship care assistance.   For kinship 
care and long-term kinship care payments under s. 48.57 (3m) (am) and (3n) (am), 
for assessments to determine eligibility for those payments, and for agreements 
under s. 48.57 (3t) with the governing bodies of Indian tribes for the administration 
of the kinship care and long-term kinship care programs within the boundaries of 
the reservations of those tribes, $28,727,100 $45,686,700 in fiscal year 2021-22 
2025-26 and $31,441,800 $53,125,600 in fiscal year 2022-23.  In fiscal year 2023-24, 
for such payments, $31,719,200.  In fiscal year 2024-25, for such payments, 
$35,661,000 2026-27.
SECTION  981.  49.175 (1) (z) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (z)  Grants to the Boys and Girls Clubs of America.   For grants to the 
Wisconsin Chapter of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America to fund programs that 
improve social, academic, and employment skills of youth who are eligible to receive 
temporary assistance for needy families under 42 USC 601 et seq., focusing on 
study habits, intensive tutoring in math and English, and exposure to career 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 739 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  981
options and role models, $2,807,000 $9,507,000 in each fiscal year.  Grants provided 
under this paragraph may not be used by the grant recipient to replace funding for 
programs that are being funded, when the grant proceeds are received, with 
moneys other than those from the appropriations specified in sub. (1) (intro.).  The 
total amount of the grants includes funds for the BE GREAT: Graduate program in 
the amount of matching funds that the program provides, up to $1,532,000 in each 
fiscal year, to be used only for activities for which federal Temporary Assistance for 
Needy Families block grant moneys may be used.
SECTION  982.  49.175 (1) (zh) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.175 (1) (zh)  Earned income tax credit supplement.   For the transfer of 
moneys from the appropriation account under s. 20.437 (2) (md) to the 
appropriation account under s. 20.835 (2) (kf) for the earned income tax credit, 
$63,600,000 $100,907,800 in fiscal year 2021-22 2025-26 and $66,600,000 
$101,558,500 in fiscal year 2022-23.  In fiscal year 2023-24, for such purposes, 
$61,725,000.  In fiscal year 2024-25, for such purposes, $65,002,000 2026-27.
SECTION  983.  49.19 (1) (a) 2. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.19 (1) (a) 2. a.  Is living with a parent; a blood relative, including those of 
half-blood, and including first cousins, nephews or nieces and persons of preceding 
generations as denoted by prefixes of grand, great or great-great; a stepfather, 
stepmother stepparent, stepbrother, or stepsister; a person who legally adopts the 
child or is the adoptive parent of the child [s parent, a natural or legally adopted 
child of such person or a relative of an adoptive parent; or a spouse of any person 
named in this subparagraph subd. 2. a. even if the marriage is terminated by death 
or divorce; and is living in a residence maintained by one or more of these relatives 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 740 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  983
as the child [s or their own home, or living in a residence maintained by one or more 
of these relatives as the child [s or their own home because the parents of the child 
have been found unfit to have care and custody of the child; or
SECTION  984.  49.19 (4) (d) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.19 (4) (d) (intro.)  Aid may be granted to the mother or stepmother parent 
or stepparent of a dependent child if he or she is without a husband spouse or if he 
or she:
SECTION  985.  49.19 (4) (d) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.19 (4) (d) 1.  Is the wife spouse of a husband person who is incapacitated for 
gainful work by mental or physical disability; or
SECTION  986.  49.19 (4) (d) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.19 (4) (d) 2.  Is the wife spouse of a husband person who is incarcerated or 
who is a convicted offender permitted to live at home but precluded from earning a 
wage because the husband person is required by a court imposed sentence to 
perform unpaid public work or unpaid community service; or
SECTION  987.  49.19 (4) (d) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.19 (4) (d) 3.  Is the wife spouse of a husband person who has been 
committed to the department pursuant to ch. 975, irrespective of the probable 
period of such commitment; or
SECTION  988.  49.19 (4) (d) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.19 (4) (d) 4.  Is the wife spouse of a husband person who has continuously 
abandoned or failed to support him or her, if proceedings have been commenced 
against the husband person under ch. 769; or1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 741 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  989
SECTION  989.  49.19 (4) (d) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.19 (4) (d) 5.  Has been divorced and is without a husband spouse or legally 
separated from his or her husband spouse and is unable through use of the 
provisions of law to compel his or her former husband spouse to adequately support 
the child for whom aid is sought; or
SECTION  990.  49.226 of the statutes is created to read:
49.226   Child support debt reduction.   (1)  The department shall establish 
a program to provide noncustodial child support debt reduction.  A noncustodial 
parent qualifies to receive up to $1,500 in debt reduction under this section if all of 
the following apply:
(a)  The noncustodial parent completes an eligible employment program, as 
defined by the department in rules promulgated under sub. (3).
(b)  The custodial parent agrees to reducing child support debt owed up to the 
amount of the benefit paid.
(2)  A noncustodial parent may not receive debt reduction under sub. (1) more 
than once in any 12-month period.
(3)  The department shall promulgate rules to implement this section, 
including rules to determine how debt reduction provided under sub. (1) is 
apportioned among multiple child support orders.
SECTION  991.  49.345 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.345 (1)  Liability and the collection and enforcement of such liability for the 
care, maintenance, services, and supplies specified in this section are governed 
exclusively by this section, except in cases of child support ordered by a court under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 742 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  991
s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 (5m) (a), 48.363 (2), 938.183 (4), 938.355 (2) (b) 
4. (4g) (a), 938.357 (5m) (a), or 938.363 (2) or ch. 767 or s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 
stats., s. 48.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., s. 938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., or s. 938.357 
(5m) (a), 2023 stats.
SECTION  992.  49.345 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.345 (2)  Except as provided in sub. (14) (b) and (c), any person, including a 
person placed under s. 48.32 (1) (am) or (b), 48.345 (3), 48.357 (1) or (2m), 938.183, 
938.34 (3) or (4d), or 938.357 (1), (2m), (4), or (5) (e), receiving care, maintenance, 
services, and supplies provided by any institution in this state, in which the state is 
chargeable with all or part of the person [s care, maintenance, services, and 
supplies, and the person [s property and estate, including the homestead, and the 
spouse of the person, and the spouse [s property and estate, including the 
homestead, and, in the case of a minor child, the parents of the person, and their 
property and estates, including their homestead, and, in the case of a foreign child 
described in s. 48.839 (1) who became dependent on public funds for his or her 
primary support before an order granting his or her adoption, the resident of this 
state appointed guardian of the child by a foreign court who brought the child into 
this state for the purpose of adoption, and his or her property and estate, including 
his or her homestead, shall be liable for the cost of the care, maintenance, services, 
and supplies in accordance with the fee schedule established by the department 
under s. 49.32 (1).  If a spouse, widow surviving spouse, or minor, or an 
incapacitated person may be lawfully dependent upon the property for his or her 
support, the court shall release all or such part of the property and estate from the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 743 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  992
charges that may be necessary to provide for the person.  The department shall 
make every reasonable effort to notify the liable persons as soon as possible after 
the beginning of the maintenance, but the notice or the receipt of the notice is not a 
condition of liability.
SECTION  993.  49.345 (14) (e) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.345 (14) (e) 1.  An order issued under s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 
(5m) (a), 48.363 (2), 938.183 (4), 938.355 (2) (b) 4. (4g) (a), 938.357 (5m) (a), or 
938.363 (2) or s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., s. 48.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., s. 
938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., or s. 938.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., for support 
determined under this subsection constitutes an assignment of all commissions, 
earnings, salaries, wages, pension benefits, income continuation insurance benefits 
under s. 40.62, duty disability benefits under s. 40.65, benefits under ch. 102 or 108, 
and other money due or to be due in the future to the county department under s. 
46.215, 46.22, or 46.23 in the county where the order was entered or to the 
department, depending upon the placement of the child as specified by rules 
promulgated under subd. 5.  The assignment shall be for an amount sufficient to 
ensure payment under the order.
SECTION  994.  49.43 (12) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.43 (12)  XSpouseY means the legal husband or wife of person to whom the 
beneficiary is legally married, whether or not the person is eligible for medical 
assistance.
SECTION  995.  49.45 (2p) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  996.  49.45 (2t) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  997.  49.45 (3) (e) 11. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 744 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  997
49.45 (3) (e) 11.  The department shall use a portion of the moneys collected 
under s. 50.38 (2) (a) to pay for services provided by eligible hospitals, as defined in 
s. 50.38 (1), other than critical access hospitals, under the Medical Assistance 
Program under this subchapter, including services reimbursed on a fee-for-service 
basis and services provided under a managed care system.  For state fiscal year 
2008-09, total payments required under this subdivision, including both the federal 
and state share of Medical Assistance, shall equal the amount collected under s. 
50.38 (2) (a) for fiscal year 2008-09 divided by 57.75 percent.  For each state fiscal 
year after state fiscal year 2008-09, total payments required under this subdivision, 
including both the federal and state share of Medical Assistance, shall equal the 
amount collected under s. 50.38 (2) (a) for the fiscal year divided by 61.68 62.39 
percent.
SECTION  998.  49.45 (3) (e) 12. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.45 (3) (e) 12.  The department shall use a portion of the moneys collected 
under s. 50.38 (2) (b) to pay for services provided by critical access hospitals under 
the Medical Assistance Program under this subchapter, including services 
reimbursed on a fee-for-service basis and services provided under a managed care 
system.  For each state fiscal year, total payments required under this subdivision, 
including both the federal and state share of Medical Assistance, shall equal the 
amount collected under s. 50.38 (2) (b) for the fiscal year divided by 61.68 percent 
$49,392,400.  The department may use funds in the appropriation under s. 20.435 
(4) (b), as necessary, to fund the nonfederal share of payments under this 
subdivision.
SECTION  999.  49.45 (3h) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 745 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  999
49.45 (3h)  PAYMENTS  TO RURAL  HEALTH  CLINICS .  (a)  For services provided by 
a rural health clinic on or after the effective date of this paragraph .... [LRB inserts 
date], and before July 1, 2026, to a recipient of the Medical Assistance program 
under this subchapter, the department shall reimburse the rural health clinic 
under a payment methodology in effect on July 1, 2025, and in accordance with 42 
USC 1396a (bb) (6).
(b)  For services provided by a rural health clinic on or after July 1, 2026, to a 
recipient of the Medical Assistance program under this subchapter, the department 
shall reimburse the rural health clinic using a payment methodology based on the 
Medicaid prospective payment system under 42 USC 1396a (bb) (1) to (3).  The 
department shall consult with rural health clinics in developing the payment 
methodology under this paragraph.
SECTION  1000 .  49.45 (6xm) of the statutes is created to read:
49.45 (6xm)   PEDIATRIC  INPATIENT  SUPPLEMENT .  (a)  From the appropriations 
under s. 20.435 (4) (b), (o), and (w), the department shall, using a method 
determined by the department, distribute a total sum of $2,000,000 in each state 
fiscal year to hospitals that meet all of the following criteria:
1.  The hospital is an acute care hospital located in this state.
2.  During the hospital [s fiscal year, the inpatient days in the hospital [s acute 
care pediatric units and intensive care pediatric units totaled more than 12,000 
days, not including neonatal intensive care units.  For purposes of this subdivision, 
the hospital [s fiscal year is the hospital [s fiscal year that ended in the 2nd calendar 
year preceding the beginning of the state fiscal year.
(b)  Notwithstanding par. (a), from the appropriations under s. 20.435 (4) (b), 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 746 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1000
(o), and (w), the department may, using a method determined by the department, 
distribute an additional total sum of $7,500,000 in each state fiscal year to hospitals 
that are free-standing pediatric teaching hospitals located in Wisconsin that have a 
percentage calculated under s. 49.45 (3m) (b) 1. a. greater than 45 percent.
SECTION  1001 .  49.45 (19) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.45 (19) (a)  As a condition of eligibility for medical assistance, a person 
shall, notwithstanding other provisions of the statutes except as provided in par. 
(cm), be deemed to have assigned to the state, by applying for or receiving medical 
assistance, any rights to medical support or other payment of medical expenses 
from any other person, including rights to unpaid amounts accrued at the time of 
application for medical assistance as well as any rights to support accruing during 
the time for which medical assistance is paid.
SECTION  1002 .  49.45 (19) (c) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1003 .  49.45 (19) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
49.45 (19) (cm)  Notwithstanding par. (a), birth expenses may not be recovered 
by the state under this subsection.
SECTION  1004 .  49.45 (23) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1005 .  49.45 (23b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1006 .  49.45 (24k) (c) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1007 .  49.45 (24L) of the statutes is created to read:
49.45 (24L)   STATEWIDE  DENTAL  CONTRACT .  The department shall submit any 
necessary request to the federal department of health and human services for a 
state plan amendment or waiver of federal Medicaid law to implement a statewide 
contract for dental benefits through a single vendor under the Medical Assistance 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 747 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1007
program.  If the federal government disapproves the amendment or waiver request, 
the department is not required to implement this subsection.
SECTION  1008 .  49.45 (25c) of the statutes is created to read:
49.45 (25c)   CHILDREN [S BEHAVIORAL  HEALTH  SPECIALTY  MANAGED  CARE .  The 
department may request a waiver from the federal department of health and 
human services to administer a children [s behavioral health specialty managed 
care program under the Medical Assistance program.  If the waiver is granted, the 
department may administer the children [s behavioral health specialty managed 
care program under this subsection.
SECTION  1009 .  49.45 (25d) of the statutes is created to read:
49.45 (25d)   HEALTH -RELATED  SOCIAL  NEEDS .  The department shall request a 
waiver from the federal department of health and human services to provide 
reimbursement for services for health-related social needs under the Medical 
Assistance program.  If the waiver is granted, the department shall provide 
reimbursement for services for health-related social needs under this subsection.
SECTION  1010 .  49.45 (30) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1011 .  49.45 (30) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 49.45 (30) and 
amended to read:
49.45 (30)  SERVICES  PROVIDED  BY COMMUNITY  SUPPORT  PROGRAMS .  The 
department shall reimburse a provider of county that provides services under s. 
49.46 (2) (b) 6. L. only for the amount of the allowable charges for those services 
under the Medical Assistance program  that is provided by the federal government 
and for the amount of the allowable charges for those services under the Medical 
Assistance program that is not provided by the federal government.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 748 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1012
SECTION  1012 .  49.45 (30j) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.45 (30j)  (title)  R EIMBURSEMENT  FOR PEER  RECOVERY  COACH  AND CERTIFIED  
PEER  SPECIALIST  SERVICES .
SECTION  1013 .  49.45 (30j) (a) 1. and 2. of the statutes are renumbered 49.45 
(30j) (a) 2m. and 3.
SECTION  1014 .  49.45 (30j) (a) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
49.45 (30j)  (a) 1m.  XCertified peer specialist Y means an individual who has 
experience in the mental health and substance use services system, who is trained 
to provide support to others, and who has received peer specialist or parent peer 
specialist certification under the rules established by the department.
SECTION  1015 .  49.45 (30j) (bm) of the statutes is created to read:
49.45 (30j)  (bm)  The department shall reimburse under the Medical 
Assistance program under this subchapter any service provided by a certified peer 
specialist if the service satisfies all of the following conditions:
1.  The recipient of the service provided by a certified peer specialist is in 
treatment for or recovery from a mental illness or a substance use disorder.
2.  The certified peer specialist provides the service under the supervision of a 
competent mental health professional.
3.  The certified peer specialist provides the service in coordination with the 
Medical Assistance recipient [s individual treatment plan and in accordance with 
the recipient [s individual treatment goals.
4.  The certified peer specialist providing the service has completed training 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 749 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1015
requirements, as established by the department by rule, after consulting with 
members of the recovery community.
SECTION  1016 .  49.45 (30j) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.45 (30j)  (c)  The department shall certify under Medical Assistance peer 
recovery coaches and certified peer specialists to provide services in accordance 
with this subsection.
SECTION  1017 .  49.45 (30p) of the statutes is created to read:
49.45 (30p)   D ETOXIFICATION  AND STABILIZATION  SERVICES .  (a)  In this 
subsection:
1.  XAdult residential integrated behavioral health stabilization service Y 
means a residential behavioral health treatment service, delivered under the 
oversight of a medical director, that provides withdrawal management and 
intoxication monitoring, as well as integrated behavioral health stabilization 
services, and includes nursing care on site for medical monitoring available on a 24-
hour basis.  XAdult residential integrated behavioral health stabilization service Y 
may include the provision of services including screening, assessment, intake, 
evaluation and diagnosis, medical care, observation and monitoring, physical 
examination, determination of medical stability, medication management, nursing 
services, case management, drug testing, counseling, individual therapy, group 
therapy, family therapy, psychoeducation, peer support services, recovery coaching, 
recovery support services, and crisis intervention services, to ameliorate acute 
behavioral health symptoms and stabilize functioning.
2.  XCommunity-based withdrawal management Y means a medically managed 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 750 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1017
withdrawal management service delivered on an outpatient basis by a physician or 
other service personnel acting under the supervision of a physician.
3.  XDetoxification and stabilization services Y means adult residential 
integrated behavioral health stabilization service, residential withdrawal 
management service, or residential intoxication monitoring service.
4.  XResidential intoxication monitoring service Y means a residential service 
that provides 24-hour observation to monitor the safe resolution of alcohol or 
sedative intoxication and to monitor for the development of alcohol withdrawal for 
intoxicated patients who are not in need of emergency medical or behavioral health 
care.  XResidential intoxication monitoring service Y may include the provision of 
services including screening, assessment, intake, evaluation and diagnosis, 
observation and monitoring, case management, drug testing, counseling, individual 
therapy, group therapy, family therapy, psychoeducation, peer support services, 
recovery coaching, and recovery support services.
5.  XResidential withdrawal management service Y means a residential 
substance use treatment service that provides withdrawal management and 
intoxication monitoring, and includes medically managed 24-hour on-site nursing 
care, under the supervision of a physician.  XResidential withdrawal management 
serviceY may include the provision of services, including screening, assessment, 
intake, evaluation and diagnosis, medical care, observation and monitoring, 
physical examination, medication management, nursing services, case 
management, drug testing, counseling, individual therapy, group therapy, family 
therapy, psychoeducation, peer support services, recovery coaching, and recovery 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 751 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1017
support services, to ameliorate symptoms of acute intoxication and withdrawal and 
to stabilize functioning.  XResidential withdrawal management service Y may also 
include community-based withdrawal management and intoxication monitoring 
services.
(b)  Subject to par. (c), the department shall provide reimbursement for 
detoxification and stabilization services under the Medical Assistance program 
under s. 49.46 (2) (b) 14r.  The department shall certify providers under the Medical 
Assistance program to provide detoxification and stabilization services in 
accordance with this subsection.
(c)  The department shall submit to the federal department of health and 
human services any request for a state plan amendment, waiver, or other federal 
approval necessary to provide reimbursement for detoxification and stabilization 
services as described in this subsection.  If the federal department approves the 
request or if no federal approval is necessary, the department shall provide the 
reimbursement under s. 49.46 (2) (b) 14r.  If the federal department disapproves the 
request, the department may not provide the reimbursement described in this 
subsection.
SECTION  1018 .  49.45 (30t) of the statutes is created to read:
49.45 (30t)   DOULA  SERVICES .  (a)  In this subsection:
1.  XCertified doula Y means an individual who has received certification from 
a doula certifying organization recognized by the department.
2.  XDoula services Y means childbirth education and support services, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 752 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1018
including emotional and physical support provided during pregnancy, labor, birth, 
and the postpartum period.
(b)  The department shall request from the secretary of the federal 
department of health and human services any required waiver or any required 
amendment to the state plan for Medical Assistance to allow reimbursement for 
doula services provided by a certified doula.  If the waiver or state plan amendment 
is granted, the department shall reimburse a certified doula under s. 49.46 (2) (b) 
12p. for the allowable charges for doula services provided to Medical Assistance 
recipients.
SECTION  1019 .  49.45 (39) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.45 (39) (b) 1.  ZPayment for school medical services. [  If a school district or a 
cooperative educational service agency elects to provide school medical services and 
meets all requirements under par. (c), the department shall reimburse the school 
district or the cooperative educational service agency for 60 100 percent of the 
federal share of allowable charges for the school medical services that it provides 
and, as specified in subd. 2., for allowable administrative costs.  If the Wisconsin 
Center for the Blind and Visually Impaired or the Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing elects to provide school medical services 
and meets all requirements under par. (c), the department shall reimburse the 
department of public instruction for 60 100 percent of the federal share of allowable 
charges for the school medical services that the Wisconsin Center for the Blind and 
Visually Impaired or the Wisconsin Educational Services Program for the Deaf and 
Hard of Hearing provides and, as specified in subd. 2., for allowable administrative 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 753 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1019
costs.  A school district, cooperative educational service agency, the Wisconsin 
Center for the Blind and Visually Impaired, or the Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing may submit, and the department shall 
allow, claims for common carrier transportation costs as a school medical service 
unless the department receives notice from the federal health care financing 
administration that, under a change in federal policy, the claims are not allowed.  If 
the department receives the notice, a school district, cooperative educational service 
agency, the Wisconsin Center for the Blind and Visually Impaired, or the Wisconsin 
Educational Services Program for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing may submit, and 
the department shall allow, unreimbursed claims for common carrier 
transportation costs incurred before the date of the change in federal policy.  The 
department shall promulgate rules establishing a methodology for making 
reimbursements under this paragraph.  All other expenses for the school medical 
services provided by a school district or a cooperative educational service agency 
shall be paid for by the school district or the cooperative educational service agency 
with funds received from state or local taxes.  The school district, the Wisconsin 
Center for the Blind and Visually Impaired, the Wisconsin Educational Services 
Program for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing, or the cooperative educational service 
agency shall comply with all requirements of the federal department of health and 
human services for receiving federal financial participation.
SECTION  1020 .  49.45 (39) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.45 (39) (b) 2.  ZPayment for school medical services administrative costs. [  
The department shall reimburse a school district or a cooperative educational 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 754 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1020
service agency specified under subd. 1. and shall reimburse the department of 
public instruction on behalf of the Wisconsin Center for the Blind and Visually 
Impaired or the Wisconsin Educational Services Program for the Deaf and Hard of 
Hearing for 90 100 percent of the federal share of allowable administrative costs, 
using time studies, beginning in fiscal year 1999-2000.  A school district or a 
cooperative educational service agency may submit, and the department of health 
services shall allow, claims for administrative costs incurred during the period that 
is up to 24 months before the date of the claim, if allowable under federal law.
SECTION  1021 .  49.45 (41) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.45 (41) (d)  The department shall, in accordance with all procedures set 
forth under s. 20.940, request a waiver under 42 USC 1315 or submit a Medical 
Assistance state plan amendment to the federal department of health and human 
services to obtain any necessary federal approval required to provide 
reimbursement to crisis urgent care and observation facilities certified under s. 
51.036 for crisis intervention services under this subsection.  If the department 
determines submission of a state plan amendment is appropriate, the department 
shall, notwithstanding whether the expected fiscal effect of the amendment is 
$7,500,000 or more, submit the amendment to the joint committee on finance for 
review in accordance with the procedures under sub. (2t).  If federal approval is 
granted or no federal approval is required, the department shall provide 
reimbursement under s. 49.46 (2) (b) 15.  If federal approval is necessary but is not 
granted, the department may not provide reimbursement for crisis intervention 
services provided by crisis urgent care and observation facilities.
SECTION  1022 .  49.45 (52) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 755 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1022
49.45 (52) (a) 1.  If the department provides the notice under par. (c) selecting 
the payment procedure in this paragraph, the department may, from the 
appropriation account under s. 20.435 (7) (b), make Medical Assistance payment 
adjustments to county departments under s. 46.215, 46.22, 46.23, 51.42, or 51.437 
or to local health departments, as defined in s. 250.01 (4), as appropriate, for 
covered services under s. 49.46 (2) (a) 2. and 4. d. and f. and (b) 6. b., c., f., fm., g., j., 
k., L., Lm., and m., 9., 12., 12m., 13., 15., and 16., except for services specified under 
s. 49.46 (2) (b) 6. b. and c. provided to children participating in the early 
intervention program under s. 51.44.  Payment adjustments under this paragraph 
shall include the state share of the payments.  The total of any payment 
adjustments under this paragraph and Medical Assistance payments made from 
appropriation accounts under s. 20.435 (4) (b), (gm), (o), and (w), may not exceed 
applicable limitations on payments under 42 USC 1396a (a) (30) (A).
SECTION  1023 .  49.45 (52) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.45 (52) (b) 1.  Annually, a county department under s. 46.215, 46.22, 46.23, 
51.42, or 51.437 shall submit a certified cost report that meets the requirements of 
the federal department of health and human services for covered services under s. 
49.46 (2) (a) 2. and 4. d. and f. and (b) 6. b., c., f., fm., g., j., k., L., Lm., and m., 9., 12., 
12m., 13., 15., and 16., except for services specified under s. 49.46 (2) (b) 6. b. and c. 
provided to children participating in the early intervention program under s. 51.44.
SECTION  1024 .  49.45 (62) of the statutes is created to read:
49.45 (62)  PRERELEASE  COVERAGE  OF INCARCERATED  INDIVIDUALS .  (a)  The 
department may submit to the secretary of the federal department of health and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 756 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1024
human services a request for a waiver of federal Medicaid law to conduct a 
demonstration project to provide incarcerated individuals prerelease health care 
coverage for certain services under the Medical Assistance program for up to 90 
days preceding the incarcerated individual [s release if the individual is otherwise 
eligible for coverage under the Medical Assistance program.
(b)  If a waiver submitted by the department under par. (a) is approved by the 
federal department of health and human services, the department may provide 
reimbursement under the Medical Assistance program for both the federal and 
nonfederal share of services, including case management services, provided to 
incarcerated individuals under the approved waiver.
SECTION  1025 .  49.46 (1) (a) 1m. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.46 (1) (a) 1m.  Any pregnant woman whose income does not exceed the 
standard of need under s. 49.19 (11) and whose pregnancy is medically verified.  
Eligibility continues to the last day of the month in which the 60th day or, if 
approved by the federal government, the 90th 365th day after the last day of the 
pregnancy falls.
SECTION  1026 .  49.46 (1) (a) 16. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.46 (1) (a) 16.  Any child who is living with  a relative an individual who is 
eligible to receive payments under s. 48.57 (3m) or (3n) with respect to that child, if 
the department determines that no other insurance is available to the child.
SECTION  1027 .  49.46 (1) (j) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.46 (1) (j)  An individual determined to be eligible for benefits under par. (a) 
9. remains eligible for benefits under par. (a) 9. for the balance of the pregnancy and 
to the last day of the month in which the 60th day or, if approved by the federal 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 757 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1027
government, the 90th 365th day after the last day of the pregnancy falls without 
regard to any change in the individual [s family income.
SECTION  1028 .  49.46 (2) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.46 (2) (a) 3.  Rural health clinic services, as provided in s. 49.45 (3h).
SECTION  1029 .  49.46 (2) (b) 1. j. of the statutes is created to read:
49.46 (2) (b) 1. j.  Nonsurgical treatment of temporomandibular joint disorder.
SECTION  1030 .  49.46 (2) (b) 12p. of the statutes is created to read:
49.46 (2) (b) 12p.  Doula services provided by a certified doula, as specified 
under s. 49.45 (30t).
SECTION  1031 .  49.46 (2) (b) 14c. of the statutes is created to read:
49.46 (2) (b) 14c.  Subject to par. (bv), services by a psychiatric residential 
treatment facility.
SECTION  1032 .  49.46 (2) (b) 14p. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.46 (2) (b) 14p.  Subject to s. 49.45 (30j), services provided by a peer recovery 
coach or a certified peer specialist.
SECTION  1033 .  49.46 (2) (b) 14r. of the statutes is created to read:
49.46 (2) (b) 14r.  Detoxification and stabilization services as specified under s. 
49.45 (30p).
SECTION  1034 .  49.46 (2) (bv) of the statutes is created to read:
49.46 (2) (bv)  The department shall submit to the federal department of 
health and human services any request for a state plan amendment, waiver, or 
other federal approval necessary to provide reimbursement for services by a 
psychiatric residential treatment facility.  If the federal department of health and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 758 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1034
human services approves the request or if no federal approval is necessary, the 
department shall provide reimbursement under par. (b) 14c.  If the federal 
department of health and human services disapproves the request, the department 
may not provide reimbursement for services under par. (b) 14c.
SECTION  1035 .  49.47 (4) (ag) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.47 (4) (ag) 2.  Pregnant and the woman [s pregnancy is medically verified.  
Eligibility continues to the last day of the month in which the 60th day or, if 
approved by the federal government, the 90th 365th day after the last day of the 
pregnancy falls.
SECTION  1036 .  49.471 (1) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.471 (1) (b) 2.  A stepfather, stepmother stepparent, stepbrother, or 
stepsister.
SECTION  1037 .  49.471 (1) (cr) of the statutes is created to read:
49.471 (1) (cr)  XEnhanced federal medical assistance percentage Y means a 
federal medical assistance percentage described under 42 USC 1396d (y) or (z).
SECTION  1038 .  49.471 (4) (a) 4. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.471 (4) (a) 4. b.  The individual [s family income does not exceed 100 133 
percent of the poverty line before application of the 5 percent income disregard 
under 42 CFR 435.603 (d).
SECTION  1039 .  49.471 (4) (a) 8. of the statutes is created to read:
49.471 (4) (a) 8.  An individual who meets all of the following criteria:
a.  The individual is an adult under the age of 65.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 759 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1039
b.  The adult has a family income that does not exceed 133 percent of the 
poverty line, except as provided in sub. (4g).
c.  The adult is not otherwise eligible for the Medical Assistance program 
under this subchapter or the Medicare program under 42 USC 1395 et seq.
SECTION  1040 .  49.471 (4g) of the statutes is created to read:
49.471 (4g)  M EDICAID  EXPANSION ; FEDERAL  MEDICAL  ASSISTANCE  
PERCENTAGE .  For services provided to individuals described under sub. (4) (a) 8., 
the department shall comply with all federal requirements to qualify for the highest 
available enhanced federal medical assistance percentage.  The department shall 
submit any amendment to the state medical assistance plan, request for a waiver of 
federal Medicaid law, or other approval request required by the federal government 
to provide services to the individuals described under sub. (4) (a) 8. and qualify for 
the highest available enhanced federal medical assistance percentage.
SECTION  1041 .  49.471 (6) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.471 (6) (b)  A pregnant woman who is determined to be eligible for benefits 
under sub. (4) remains eligible for benefits under sub. (4) for the balance of the 
pregnancy and to the last day of the month in which the 60th day or, if approved by 
the federal government, the 90th 365th day after the last day of the pregnancy falls 
without regard to any change in the woman [s family income.
SECTION  1042 .  49.471 (7) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.471 (7) (b) 1.  A pregnant woman whose family income exceeds 300 percent 
of the poverty line may become eligible for coverage under this section if the 
difference between the pregnant woman [s family income and the applicable income 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 760 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1042
limit under sub. (4) (a) is obligated or expended for any member of the pregnant 
woman[s family for medical care or any other type of remedial care recognized 
under state law or for personal health insurance premiums or for both.  Eligibility 
obtained under this subdivision continues without regard to any change in family 
income for the balance of the pregnancy and to the last day of the month in which 
the 60th day or, if approved by the federal government, the 90th 365th day after the 
last day of the woman [s pregnancy falls.  Eligibility obtained by a pregnant woman 
under this subdivision extends to all pregnant women in the pregnant woman [s 
family.
SECTION  1043 .  49.485 of the statutes is renumbered 20.9315 (19) and 
amended to read:
20.9315 (19)  Whoever knowingly presents or causes to be presented to any 
officer, employee, or agent of this state a false claim for medical assistance shall 
forfeit not less than $5,000 nor more than $10,000, plus 3 times the amount of the 
damages that were sustained by the state or would have been sustained by the 
state, whichever is greater, as a result of the false claim.  The attorney general may 
bring an action on behalf of the state to recover any forfeiture incurred under this 
section.
SECTION  1044 .  49.686 (3) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.686 (3) (d)  Has applied for coverage under and has been denied eligibility 
for medical assistance within 12 months prior to application for reimbursement 
under sub. (2).  This paragraph does not apply to an individual who is eligible for 
benefits under the demonstration project for childless adults under s. 49.45 (23) or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 761 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1044
to an individual who is eligible for benefits under BadgerCare Plus under s. 49.471 
(4) (a) 8. or (11).
SECTION  1045 .  49.79 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.79 (1) (b)  XControlled substance Y has the meaning given in 21 USC 802 (6), 
except that Xcontrolled substance Y does not include tetrahydrocannabinols in any 
form, including tetrahydrocannabinols contained in marijuana, obtained from 
marijuana, or chemically synthesized.
SECTION  1046 .  49.79 (7s) of the statutes is created to read:
49.79 (7s)  PAYMENT  PROCESSING  PROGRAM .  The department shall administer 
a payment processing program to provide to farmers [ markets and farmers who sell 
directly to consumers electronic benefit transfer and credit and debit card 
processing equipment and services, including electronic benefit transfer for the food 
stamp program.  To participate in the payment processing program, the vendor that 
is under contract to process the electronic benefit transfer and credit and debit card 
transactions shall also process any local purchasing incentives, even if those local 
purchasing incentives are funded by a local 3rd-party entity.
SECTION  1047 .  49.79 (7w) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.79 (7w)  (a) 1.  XEligible retailer Y includes any supermarket, grocery store, 
wholesaler, small-scale store, corner store, convenience store, neighborhood store, 
bodega, farmers [ market, direct-marketing farmer, nonprofit cooperative food-
purchasing venture, or community-supported agriculture program means a retailer 
authorized to participate in the food stamp program federal supplemental nutrition 
assistance program.
SECTION  1048 .  49.79 (7w) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 762 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1048
49.79 (7w)  (b)  The department shall, through a competitive selection process, 
contract with one or more nonprofit 3rd-party organizations to administer a 
healthy food incentive program statewide.  The healthy food incentive program 
shall provide to any food stamp program recipient assistance group that uses 
benefits at an eligible retailer participating in the healthy food incentive program 
under this subsection a monetary amount up to the amount of food stamp program 
benefits used at the eligible retailer for the purpose of purchasing fruits and 
vegetables from the eligible retailer.  In administering the program, a nonprofit 3rd-
party organization shall prioritize including in the healthy food incentive program 
eligible retailers that source fruits and vegetables primarily from growers in this 
state and shall establish a timeline for expiration of matching monetary amounts 
provided for the purchase of fruits and vegetables under the healthy food incentive 
program such that a matching monetary amount expires no later than one year 
after it is provided.  The department may establish a maximum amount of benefits 
that may be matched per day for a food stamp program recipient assistance group.  
Any nonprofit 3rd-party organization administering the healthy food incentive 
program shall ensure that matching amounts provided under the program that are 
unused and expire remain with the nonprofit 3rd-party organization and, upon 
expiration, are available for use to provide matching amounts to other food stamp 
recipients assistance groups under the program.
SECTION  1049 .  49.79 (7w) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
49.79 (7w)  (c)  The department may allocate no more than 25 percent of the 
funding available for the healthy food incentive program under this subsection to 
program development, promotion of and outreach for the program, training, data 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 763 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1049
collection, evaluation, administration, and reporting and shall allocate the 
remainder of the funding available to the eligible retailers participating in the 
healthy food incentive program under this subsection.  The department shall seek, 
or require any 3rd-party organization chosen under par. (b) to seek, any available 
federal matching moneys from the Gus Schumacher Nutrition Incentive Program to 
fund the healthy food incentive program under this subsection.
SECTION  1050 .  49.79 (7w) (cd) of the statutes is created to read:
49.79 (7w)  (cd)  A 3rd-party organization chosen under par. (b) may retain for 
administrative purposes an amount not to exceed 33 percent of the total contracted 
amount or the applicable cap found in federal law or guidance, whichever is lower.
SECTION  1051 .  49.79 (9) (a) 1g. of the statutes is amended to read:
49.79 (9) (a) 1g.  Except as provided in subds. 2. and 3., beginning October 1, 
2019, the department shall require, to the extent allowed by the federal 
government, all able-bodied adults without dependents in this state to participate 
in the employment and training program under this subsection, except for able-
bodied adults without dependents who are employed, as determined by the 
department.  The department may require other able individuals who are 18 to 60 
years of age, or a subset of those individuals to the extent allowed by the federal 
government, who are not participants in a Wisconsin Works employment position to 
participate in the employment and training program under this subsection.
SECTION  1052 .  49.79 (9) (d) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1053 .  49.79 (9) (f) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1054 .  49.791 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1055 .  49.90 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 764 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1055
49.90 (4)  The circuit court shall in a summary way hear the allegations and 
proofs of the parties and by order require maintenance from these relatives, if they 
have sufficient ability, considering their own future maintenance and making 
reasonable allowance for the protection of the property and investments from which 
they derive their living and their care and protection in old age, in the following 
order:  First the husband or wife spouse; then the father and the mother parents; 
and then the grandparents in the instances in which sub. (1) (a) 2. applies.  The 
order shall specify a sum which that will be sufficient for the support of the 
dependent person under sub. (1) (a) 1. or the maintenance of a child of a dependent 
person under sub. (1) (a) 2., to be paid weekly or monthly, during a period fixed by 
the order or until the further order of the court.  If the court is satisfied that any 
such relative is unable wholly to maintain the dependent person or the child, but is 
able to contribute to the person [s support or the child [s maintenance, the court may 
direct 2 or more of the relatives to maintain the person or the child and prescribe 
the proportion each shall contribute.  If the court is satisfied that these relatives are 
unable together wholly to maintain the dependent person or the child, but are able 
to contribute to the person [s support or the child [s maintenance, the court shall 
direct a sum to be paid weekly or monthly by each relative in proportion to ability.  
Contributions directed by court order, if for less than full support, shall be paid to 
the department of health services or the department of children and families, 
whichever is appropriate, and distributed as required by state and federal law.  An 
order under this subsection that relates to maintenance required under sub. (1) (a) 
2. shall specifically assign responsibility for and direct the manner of payment of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 765 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1055
the child [s health care expenses, subject to the limitations under subs. (1) (a) 2. and 
(11).  Upon application of any party affected by the order and upon like notice and 
procedure, the court may modify such an order.  Obedience to such an order may be 
enforced by proceedings for contempt.
SECTION  1056 .  50.01 (1b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1057 .  50.08 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
50.08 (2)  A physician, an advanced practice registered nurse prescriber 
certified who may issue prescription orders under s. 441.16 441.09 (2), or a 
physician assistant who prescribes a psychotropic medication to a nursing home 
resident who has degenerative brain disorder shall notify the nursing home if the 
prescribed medication has a boxed warning under 21 CFR 201.57.
SECTION  1058 .  50.09 (1) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
50.09 (1) (a) (intro.)  Private and unrestricted communications with the 
resident [s family, physician, physician assistant, advanced practice registered 
nurse prescriber, attorney, and any other person, unless medically contraindicated 
as documented by the resident [s physician, physician assistant, or advanced 
practice registered nurse prescriber in the resident [s medical record, except that 
communications with public officials or with the resident [s attorney shall not be 
restricted in any event.  The right to private and unrestricted communications shall 
include, but is not limited to, the right to:
SECTION  1059 .  50.09 (1) (f) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
50.09 (1) (f) 1.  Privacy for visits by spouse or domestic partner.  If both 
spouses or both domestic partners under ch. 770 are residents of the same facility, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 766 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1059
the spouses or domestic partners shall be permitted to share a room unless 
medically contraindicated as documented by the resident [s physician, physician 
assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber in the resident [s 
medical record.
SECTION  1060 .  50.09 (1) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
50.09 (1) (h)  Meet with, and participate in activities of social, religious, and 
community groups at the resident [s discretion, unless medically contraindicated as 
documented by the resident [s physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber in the resident [s medical record.
SECTION  1061 .  50.09 (1) (k) of the statutes is amended to read:
50.09 (1) (k)  Be free from mental and physical abuse, and be free from 
chemical and physical restraints except as authorized in writing by a physician, 
physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber for a specified 
and limited period of time and documented in the resident [s medical record.  
Physical restraints may be used in an emergency when necessary to protect the 
resident from injury to himself or herself or others or to property.  However, 
authorization for continuing use of the physical restraints shall be secured from a 
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber 
within 12 hours.  Any use of physical restraints shall be noted in the resident [s 
medical records.  XPhysical restraints Y includes, but is not limited to, any article, 
device, or garment that interferes with the free movement of the resident and that 
the resident is unable to remove easily, and confinement in a locked room.
SECTION  1062 .  50.36 (3s) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 767 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1062
50.36 (3s)  The department shall require a hospital that provides emergency 
services to have sufficient qualified personnel at all times to manage the number 
and severity of emergency department cases anticipated by the location.  At all 
times, a hospital that provides emergency services shall have on-site at least one 
physician who, through education, training, and experience, specializes in 
emergency medicine.
SECTION  1063 .  50.38 (1) (d) and (e) of the statutes are created to read:
50.38 (1) (d)  A rehabilitation hospital, as designated by the department.
(e)  A long-term acute care hospital, as designated by the department.
SECTION  1064 .  50.38 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
50.38 (3)  The department shall establish the percentage that is applicable 
under sub. (2) (a) and (b) so that the total amount of assessments collected under 
sub. (2) (a) in a state fiscal year is equal to $414,507,300 $1,341,839,500.
SECTION  1065 .  50.49 (1) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
50.49 (1) (b) (intro.)  XHome health services Y means the following items and 
services that are furnished to an individual, who is under the care of a physician, 
physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, by a home 
health agency, or by others under arrangements made by the home health agency, 
that are under a plan for furnishing those items and services to the individual that 
is established and periodically reviewed by a physician, physician assistant, or 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber and that are, except as provided in 
subd. 6., provided on a visiting basis in a place of residence used as the individual [s 
home:
SECTION  1066 .  51.03 (7) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 768 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1066
51.03 (7)  The department shall award grants to fund services at facilities that 
provide crisis stabilization services, as defined in s. 51.043 (1) (b), based on criteria 
established by the department.
SECTION  1067 .  51.044 of the statutes is created to read:
51.044   Psychiatric residential treatment facilities.   (1)  DEFINITION .  In 
this section, Xpsychiatric residential treatment facility Y is a nonhospital facility 
that provides inpatient comprehensive mental health treatment services to 
individuals under the age of 21 who, due to mental illness, substance use, or severe 
emotional disturbance, need treatment that can most effectively be provided in a 
residential treatment facility.
(2)  C ERTIFICATION  REQUIRED ; EXEMPTION .  (a)  No person may operate a 
psychiatric residential treatment facility without a certification from the 
department.  The department may limit the number of certifications it grants to 
operate a psychiatric residential treatment facility.
(b)  A psychiatric residential treatment facility that has a certification from 
the department under this section is not subject to facility regulation under ch. 48.
(3)  RULES .  The department may promulgate rules to implement this section.
SECTION  1068 .  51.06 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
51.06 (5)  SURCHARGE  FOR EXTENDED  INTENSIVE  TREATMENT .  The department 
may impose on a county a progressive surcharge for services under sub. (1m) (d) 
that an individual receives after the maximum discharge date for the individual 
that was agreed upon under sub. (3) (b) 2.  The surcharge is 10 percent of the 
amount paid for the individual [s services under s. 49.45 during any part of the first 
6-month period following the maximum discharge date, and increases by 10 percent 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 769 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1068
of the amount paid for the individual [s services under s. 49.45 during any part of 
each 6-month period thereafter.  Any revenues received under this subsection shall 
be credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.435 (2) (gL) (g).
SECTION  1069 .  51.41 (1d) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
51.41 (1d) (b) 4.  A psychiatric mental health advanced practice registered 
nurse who is suggested by the Milwaukee County board of supervisors.  The 
Milwaukee County board of supervisors shall solicit suggestions from organizations 
including the Wisconsin Nurses Association for individuals who specialize in a full 
continuum of behavioral health and medical services including emergency 
detention, inpatient, residential, transitional, partial hospitalization, intensive 
outpatient, and wraparound community-based services.  The Milwaukee County 
board of supervisors shall suggest to the Milwaukee County executive 4 psychiatric 
mental health advanced practice registered nurses for this board membership 
position.
SECTION  1070 .  51.441 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1071 .  51.442 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1072 .  51.443 of the statutes is created to read:
51.443   Mental health consultation program.   (1)  In this section:
(a)  XParticipating clinicians Y includes physicians, nurse practitioners, 
physician assistants, and medically appropriate members of the care teams of 
physicians, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants.
(b)  XProgram Y means the mental health consultation program under this 
section.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 770 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1072
(2)  During fiscal year 2025-26, the department shall contract with the 
organization that provided consultation services through the child psychiatry 
consultation program under s. 51.442, 2023 stats., as of January 1, 2025, to 
administer the mental health consultation program described under this section.  
Beginning in fiscal year 2026-27, the department shall contract with the 
organization that provided consultation services through the child psychiatry 
consultation program under s. 51.442, 2023 stats., as of January 1, 2025, or another 
organization to administer the mental health consultation program under this 
section.
(3)  The contracting organization under sub. (2) shall administer a mental 
health consultation program that incorporates a comprehensive set of mental 
health consultation services, which may include perinatal, child, adult, geriatric, 
pain, veteran, and general mental health consultation services, and may contract 
with any other entity to perform any operations and satisfy any requirements under 
this section for the program.
(4)  As a condition of providing services through the program, the contracting 
organization under sub. (2) shall do all of the following:
(a)  Ensure that all mental health care providers who are providing services 
through the program have the applicable credential from this state; if a psychiatric 
professional, that the provider is eligible for certification or is certified by the 
American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology for adult psychiatry, child and 
adolescent psychiatry, or both; and if a psychologist, that the provider is registered 
in a professional organization, including the American Psychological Association, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 771 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1072
National Register of Health Service Psychologists, Association for Psychological 
Science, or the National Alliance of Professional Psychology Providers.
(b)  Maintain the infrastructure necessary to provide the program [s services 
statewide.
(c)  Operate the program on weekdays during normal business hours of 8 a.m. 
to 5 p.m.
(d)  Provide consultation services under the program as promptly as is 
practicable.
(e)  Have the capability to provide consultation services by, at a minimum, 
telephone and email.  Consultation through the program may be provided by 
teleconference, video conference, voice over Internet protocol, email, pager, in-
person conference, or any other telecommunication or electronic means.
(f)  Provide all of the following services through the program:
1.  Support for participating clinicians to assist in the management of mental 
health concerns.
2.  Triage-level assessments to determine the most appropriate response to 
each request, including appropriate referrals to any community providers and 
health systems.
3.  When medically appropriate, diagnostics and therapeutic feedback.
4.  Recruitment of other clinicians into the program as participating clinicians 
when possible.
(g)  Report to the department any information requested by the department.
(h)  Conduct annual surveys of participating clinicians who use the program to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 772 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1072
assess the quality of care provided, self-perceived levels of confidence in providing 
mental health services, and satisfaction with the consultations and other services 
provided through the program.  Immediately after participating clinicians begin 
using the program and again 6 to 12 months later, the contracting organization 
under sub. (2) may conduct assessments of participating clinicians to assess the 
barriers to and benefits of participation in the program to make future 
improvements and to determine the participating clinicians [ treatment abilities, 
confidence, and awareness of relevant resources before and after beginning to use 
the program.
(5)  Services provided under sub. (4) (b) to (h) are eligible for funding from the 
department.  The contracting organization under sub. (2) also may provide any of 
the following services under the program that are eligible for funding from the 
department:
(a)  Second opinion diagnostic and medication management evaluations and 
community resource referrals conducted by either a psychiatrist or allied health 
professionals.
(b)  In-person or web-based educational seminars and refresher courses on a 
medically appropriate topic within mental or behavioral health care provided to any 
participating clinician who uses the program.
(c)  Data evaluation and assessment of the program.
SECTION  1073 .  54.01 (36) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
54.01 (36) (a)  An individual who obtains or consents to a final decree or 
judgment of divorce from the decedent or an annulment of their marriage, if the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 773 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1073
decree or judgment is not recognized as valid in this state, unless the 2 
subsequently participated in a marriage ceremony purporting to marry each other 
or they subsequently held themselves out as husband and wife married to each 
other.
SECTION  1074 .  54.960 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
54.960 (1)  Beneficial interests in a custodial trust created for multiple 
beneficiaries are deemed to be separate custodial trusts of equal undivided 
interests for each beneficiary.  Except in a transfer or declaration for use and benefit 
of husband and wife 2 individuals who are married to each other, for whom 
survivorship is presumed, a right of survivorship does not exist unless the 
instrument creating the custodial trust specifically provides for survivorship or 
survivorship is required as to marital property.
SECTION  1075 .  59.10 (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
59.10   Boards: composition; election; terms; compensation; 
compatibility.   (intro.)  The boards of the several counties shall be composed of 
representatives from within the county who are elected and compensated as 
provided in this section.  Each board shall act under sub. (2), (3) or (5), unless the 
board enacts an ordinance, by a majority vote of the entire membership, to act 
under sub. (1).  If a board enacts such ordinance, a certified copy shall be filed with 
the secretary of state administration.
SECTION  1076 .  59.10 (2) (d) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
59.10 (2) (d) 1.  ZNumber of supervisors; redistricting. [  The board may, not 
more than once prior to November 15, 2010, decrease the number of supervisors 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 774 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1076
after the enactment of a supervisory district plan under par. (a).  In that case, the 
board shall redistrict, readjust, and change the boundaries of supervisory districts, 
so that the number of districts equals the number of supervisors, the districts are 
substantially equal in population according to the most recent countywide federal 
census, the districts are in as compact a form as possible, and the districts consist of 
contiguous municipalities or contiguous whole wards in existence at the time at 
which the amended redistricting plan is adopted, except as authorized in sub. (3) (b) 
2.  In the amended plan, the board shall adhere to the requirements under sub. (3) 
(b) 2. with regard to contiguity and shall, to the extent possible, place whole 
contiguous municipalities or contiguous parts of the same municipality within the 
same district.  In the amended plan, the original numbers of the districts in their 
geographic outlines, to the extent possible, shall be retained.  The chairperson of 
the board shall file a certified copy of any amended plan adopted under this 
subdivision with the secretary of state administration.
SECTION  1077 .  59.10 (3) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
59.10 (3) (b) 4.  The chairperson of the board shall file a certified copy of the 
final districting plan with the secretary of state administration.  Unless otherwise 
ordered under sub. (6), a plan enacted and filed under this paragraph, together 
with any authorized amendment that is enacted and filed under this section, 
remains in effect until the plan is superseded by a subsequent plan enacted under 
this subsection and a certified copy of that plan is filed with the secretary of state 
administration.
SECTION  1078 .  59.10 (3) (c) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 775 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1078
59.10 (3) (c) 4.  The chairperson of the board shall file a certified copy of any 
amended plan under this paragraph with the secretary of state administration.
SECTION  1079 .  59.10 (3) (cm) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
59.10 (3) (cm) 1.  ZNumber of supervisors; redistricting. [  Except as provided in 
subd. 3., following the enactment of a decennial supervisory district plan under par. 
(b), the board may decrease the number of supervisors.  In that case, the board shall 
redistrict, readjust, and change the boundaries of supervisory districts, so that the 
number of districts equals the number of supervisors, the districts are substantially 
equal in population according to the most recent countywide federal census, the 
districts are in as compact a form as possible, and the districts consist of contiguous 
municipalities or contiguous whole wards in existence at the time at which the 
redistricting plan is adopted, except as authorized in par. (b) 1.  In the redistricting 
plan, the board shall adhere to the requirements under par. (b) 2. with regard to 
contiguity and shall, to the extent possible, place whole contiguous municipalities 
or contiguous parts of the same municipality within the same district.  In 
redistricting under this subdivision, the original numbers of the districts in their 
geographic outlines, to the extent possible, shall be retained.  No plan may be 
enacted under this subdivision during review of the sufficiency of a petition filed 
under subd. 2. nor after a referendum is scheduled on such a petition.  However, if 
the electors of the county reject a change in the number of supervisory districts 
under subd. 2., the board may then take action under this subdivision except as 
provided in subd. 3.  The county clerk shall file a certified copy of any redistricting 
plan enacted under this subdivision with the secretary of state administration.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 776 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1080
SECTION  1080 .  59.10 (3) (cm) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
59.10 (3) (cm) 2.  ZPetition and referendum. [  Except as provided in subd. 3., the 
electors of a county may, by petition and referendum, decrease the number of 
supervisors at any time after the first election is held following enactment of a 
decennial supervisory district plan under par. (b).  A petition for a change in the 
number of supervisors may be filed with the county clerk.  Prior to circulating a 
petition to decrease the number of supervisors in any county, a petitioner shall 
register with the county clerk, giving the petitioner [s name and address and 
indicating the petitioner [s intent to file such a petition.  No signature on a petition 
is valid unless the signature is obtained within the 60-day period following such 
registration.  The petition shall specify the proposed number of supervisors to be 
elected.  Within 14 days after the last day for filing an original petition, any other 
petitioner may file an alternative petition with the county clerk proposing a 
different number of supervisors to be elected, and, if the petition is valid, the 
alternative proposed in the petition shall be submitted for approval at the same 
referendum.  An alternative petition is subject to the same registration and 
signature requirements as an original petition.  Each petition shall be in the form 
specified in s. 8.40 and shall contain a number of signatures of electors of the county 
equal to at least 25 percent of the total votes cast in the county for the office of 
supervisor at the most recent spring election preceding the date of filing.  The 
county clerk shall promptly determine the sufficiency of a petition filed under this 
subdivision.  Upon determination that a petition is sufficient, or if one or more valid 
alternative petitions are filed, upon determination that the petitions are sufficient, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 777 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1080
the county clerk shall call a referendum concurrently with the next spring or 
general election in the county that is held not earlier than 70 days after the 
determination is made.  The question proposed at the referendum shall be:  XShall 
the board of supervisors of .... County be decreased from .... members to .... 
members? Y.  If one or more alternative valid petitions are filed within 14 days after 
the last day that an original petition may be filed, the question relating to the 
number of supervisors shall appear separately.  The first question shall be:  XShall 
the size of the county board of supervisors of .... County be decreased from its 
current membership of .... members? Y.  Any subsequent question shall be:  XIf so, 
shall the size of the board be decreased to .... members? Y.  Each elector may vote in 
the affirmative or negative on the first question and may then vote in the 
affirmative on one of the remaining questions.  If the first question is not approved 
by a majority of the electors voting on the question, any subsequent question is of no 
effect.  If the question is approved by a majority of the electors voting on the 
question, or, if more than one question is submitted, if the first question is approved 
by a majority of the electors voting on the question, the board shall enact an 
ordinance prescribing revised boundaries for the supervisory districts in the 
county.  The ordinance shall be enacted in accordance with the approved question 
or, if more than one question is submitted, in accordance with the choice receiving a 
plurality of the votes cast.  The districts are subject to the same requirements that 
apply to districts in any plan enacted by the board under subd. 1.  If the board has 
determined under sub. (1) (b) to adopt staggered terms for the office of supervisor, 
the board may change the expiration date of the term of any supervisor to an earlier 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 778 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1080
date than the date provided under current ordinance if required to implement the 
redistricting or to maintain classes of members.  The county clerk shall file a 
certified copy of any redistricting plan enacted under this subdivision with the 
secretary of state administration.
SECTION  1081 .  59.23 (2) (m) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
59.23 (2) (m) 2.  Except as otherwise provided, receive and file the official 
oaths and bonds of all county officers and upon request shall certify under the 
clerk[s signature and seal the official capacity and authority of any county officer so 
filing and charge the statutory fee.  Upon the commencement of each term every 
clerk shall file the clerk [s signature and the impression of the clerk [s official seal in 
the office of the secretary of state administration.
SECTION  1082 .  59.23 (2) (s) of the statutes is amended to read:
59.23 (2) (s)  List of local officials.   Annually, on the first Tuesday of June, 
transmit to the secretary of state administration a list showing the name, phone 
number, electronic mail address, and post-office address of local officials, including 
the chairperson, mayor, president, clerk, treasurer, council and board members, 
and assessor of each municipality, and of the elective or appointive officials of any 
other local governmental unit, as defined in s. 66.0135 (1) (c), that is located wholly 
or partly within the county.  Such lists shall be placed on file for the information of 
the public.  The clerk, secretary, or other administrative officer of a local 
governmental unit, as defined in s. 66.0137 (1) (as), shall provide the county clerk 
the information he or she needs to complete the requirements of this paragraph.
SECTION  1083 .  59.43 (1c) (t) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 779 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1083
59.43 (1c) (t)  Upon commencement of each term, file his or her signature and 
the impression of his or her official seal or rubber stamp in the office of the 
secretary of state administration.
SECTION  1084 .  59.43 (2) (ag) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
59.43 (2) (ag) 1.  Subject to s. 59.72 (5), for recording any instrument that is 
entitled to be recorded in the office of the register of deeds, $30 $45, except that no 
fee may be collected for recording a change of address that is exempt from a filing 
fee under s. 185.83 (1) (b) or 193.111 (1) (b).
SECTION  1085 .  59.43 (2) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
59.43 (2) (e)  Subject to s. 59.72 (5), for filing any instrument which that is 
entitled to be filed in the office of register of deeds and for which no other specific 
fee is specified, $30 $45.
SECTION  1086 .  59.52 (4) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
59.52 (4) (a) 1.  Notices of tax apportionment that are received from the 
secretary of state administration, after 3 years.
SECTION  1087 .  59.52 (25) of the statutes is amended to read:
59.52 (25)  ADVISORY  AND CONTINGENT  REFERENDA .  The board may conduct a 
countywide referendum for advisory purposes or for the purpose of ratifying or 
validating a resolution adopted or ordinance enacted by the board contingent upon 
approval in the referendum.  The board may not conduct a referendum for advisory 
purposes, except as provided under s. 66.0305 (6) or for an advisory referendum 
regarding capital expenditures proposed to be funded by the county property tax 
levy.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 780 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1088
SECTION  1088 .  59.54 (25) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
59.54 (25) (title)  P OSSESSION  REGULATION  OF MARIJUANA .
SECTION  1089 .  59.54 (25) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
59.54 (25) (a) (intro.)  The board may enact and enforce an ordinance to 
prohibit the possession of marijuana, as defined in s. 961.01 (14), subject to the 
exceptions in s. 961.41 (3g) (intro.), and provide a forfeiture for a violation of the 
ordinance that is consistent with s. 961.71 or 961.72; except that if a complaint is 
issued regarding an allegation of possession of more than 25 grams of marijuana, or 
possession of any amount of marijuana following a conviction in this state for 
possession of marijuana alleging a violation of s. 961.72 (2) (b) 2. or (c) 3., the 
subject of the complaint may not be prosecuted under this subsection for the same 
action that is the subject of the complaint unless all of the following occur:
SECTION  1090 .  59.72 (5) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
59.72 (5) (a)  Before the 16th day of each month a register of deeds shall 
submit to the department of administration $15 $30 from the fee for recording or 
filing each instrument that is recorded or filed under s. 59.43 (2) (ag) 1. or (e), less 
any amount retained by the county under par. (b).
SECTION  1091 .  59.72 (5) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
59.72 (5) (b) (intro.)  Except as provided in s. 16.967 (7m), a county may retain 
$8 $15 of the portion of each fee submitted to the department of administration 
under par. (a) from the fee for recording or filing each instrument that is recorded or 
filed under s. 59.43 (2) (ag) 1. or (e) if all of the following conditions are met:
SECTION  1092 .  60.565 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 781 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1092
60.565   (title)  Ambulance Emergency medical service and ambulance 
service.
SECTION  1093 .  60.565 of the statutes is renumbered 60.565 (1) (a) and 
amended to read:
60.565 (1) (a)  The town board shall contract for or operate and maintain 
ambulance services unless such services are provided by another person.  If the 
town board contracts for ambulance services, it may contract with one or more 
providers.  The town board may determine and charge a reasonable fee for 
ambulance service provided under this section.
(c)  The town board may purchase equipment for medical and other emergency 
calls.
SECTION  1094 .  60.565 (1) (title) of the statutes is created to read:
60.565 (1) (title)  S ERVICES .
SECTION  1095 .  60.565 (1) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
60.565 (1) (b)  The town board may contract for or maintain emergency 
medical services for the town.  If the town board contracts for emergency medical 
services, it may contract with one or more providers.
SECTION  1096 .  60.565 (2) of the statutes is created to read:
60.565 (2)  F UNDING .  (a)  The town board may determine and charge a 
reasonable fee for ambulance services provided under sub. (1) (a).
(b)  The town board may do any of the following for the purpose of funding 
emergency medical services under sub. (1) (b):
1.  Appropriate money.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 782 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1096
2.  Charge property owners a fee for the cost of emergency medical services 
provided to their property according to a written schedule established by the town 
board.
3.  Levy taxes on the entire town.
4.  Levy taxes on property served by a particular source of emergency medical 
services, to support the source of emergency medical services.
SECTION  1097 .  61.187 (2) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
61.187 (2) (d)  If, in accordance with par. (a), the results of the election under 
sub. (1) provide for dissolution, the village clerk shall, within 10 days after the 
election, record the petition and determination of the village board of canvassers in 
the office of the register of deeds of the county or counties in which the village is 
located and file with the secretary of administration certified copies of the petition 
and the determination of inspectors of election.  The village clerk shall also record 
in the office of the register of deeds a certificate by the village clerk showing the 
date on which the dissolution takes effect and file with the secretary of 
administration  4 copies one copy of the certificate.  These documents shall be 
recorded and indexed by the register of deeds.  The index shall include the 
document number of the original documents and, if given on the original 
documents, the volume or reel and the page or image number where the original 
documents are filed or recorded.  The secretary of administration shall forward  2 
copies one copy of the certificate to the department of transportation and one to the 
department of revenue.
SECTION  1098 .  61.189 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 783 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1098
61.189 (2)  The election shall be noticed and conducted and the result 
canvassed and certified as in the case of regular village elections and the village 
clerk shall immediately file with the secretary of administration  4 copies one copy 
of a certification certifying the fact of holding such election and the result thereof 
and a description of the legal boundaries of such village or proposed city and  4  one 
certified copies copy of a plat scale map thereof; and thereupon a certificate of 
incorporation shall be issued to such city by the secretary of administration.  Two 
copies One copy of the certification and plat scale map shall be forwarded by the 
secretary of administration to the department of transportation and one copy to the 
department of revenue.  Thereafter such city shall in all things be governed by the 
general city charter law.  All debts, obligations and liabilities existing against such 
village at the time of such change shall continue and become like debts, obligations 
and liabilities against such city, and such city may carry out and complete all 
proceedings then pending for the issue of bonds for improvements therein.
SECTION  1099 .  62.90 (8) of the statutes is renumbered 62.90 (8) (b) and 
amended to read:
62.90 (8) (b)  Beginning January 1, 2024, the school board of the 1st class city 
school district that is located in the 1st class city shall ensure that not fewer than 25 
school resource officers are present at schools within the school district during 
normal school hours and that school resource officers are available during before-
school and after-school care, extracurricular activities, and sporting events as 
needed.  In addition, beginning January 1, 2024, the school board of the 1st class 
city school district that is located in the 1st class city shall ensure that the school 
resource officers complete the 40-hour course sponsored by the National Association 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 784 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1099
of School Resource Officers.  Beginning in the 2025-26 school year, the school board 
of the 1st class city school district that is located in the 1st class city shall consider 
the statistics it receives under s. 118.124 (3) (a) when deciding at which schools to 
place school resource officers required under this subsection.
(c) 1.  The 1st class city school district and the 1st class city shall agree to an 
apportionment of apportion the costs of meeting the requirements of this 
subsection. as follows:
(a)  In this subsection, Xlaw:
1.  XLaw enforcement officer Y means a person who is employed by the state or 
a political subdivision of the state for the purpose of detecting and preventing crime 
and enforcing laws or ordinances and who is authorized to make arrests for 
violations of the laws or ordinances that the person is employed to enforce, and 
Xschool.
3.  XSchool resource officer Y means a law enforcement officer who is deployed 
in community-oriented policing and assigned by the law enforcement agency, as 
defined in s. 165.83 (1) (b), that employs him or her to work in a full-time capacity in 
collaboration with a school district.
SECTION  1100 .  62.90 (8) (a) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
62.90 (8) (a) 2.  XSchool day Y has the meaning given in s. 115.01 (10).
SECTION  1101 .  62.90 (8) (c) 1. a. of the statutes is created to read:
62.90 (8) (c) 1. a.  For the costs of meeting the requirements of this subsection 
on school days, to the 1st class city school district 25 percent of the costs or 
$400,000, whichever is greater, and the remainder to the 1st class city.  Beginning 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 785 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1101
in the 2026-27 school year, the maximum amount that may be apportioned to the 
1st class city school district is $400,000.
SECTION  1102 .  62.90 (8) (c) 1. b. of the statutes is created to read:
62.90 (8) (c) 1. b.  For the costs of meeting the requirements of this subsection 
on days other than school days, 100 percent of the costs to the 1st class city.
SECTION  1103 .  62.90 (8) (c) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
62.90 (8) (c) 2.  For school years beginning after July 1, 2027, the maximum 
dollar amount apportioned to the 1st class city school district under subd. 1. a. shall 
be increased each year by a percentage equal to the percentage change between the 
U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month 
of August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price index for all urban 
consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August 2025, as determined by the 
federal department of labor.
SECTION  1104 .  66.0101 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0101 (3)  A charter ordinance shall be published as a class 1 notice, under 
ch. 985, and shall be recorded by the clerk in a permanent book kept for that 
purpose, with a statement of the manner of its adoption.  A certified copy of the 
charter ordinance shall be filed by the clerk with the secretary of state 
administration.  The secretary of state administration shall keep a separate index 
of all charter ordinances, arranged alphabetically by city and village and 
summarizing each ordinance, and annually shall issue the index of charter 
ordinances filed during the 12 months prior to July 1.
SECTION  1105 .  66.0104 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1106 .  66.0107 (1) (bm) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 786 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1106
66.0107 (1) (bm)  Enact and enforce an ordinance to prohibit the possession of 
marijuana, as defined in s. 961.01 (14), subject to the exceptions in s. 961.41 (3g) 
(intro.), and provide a forfeiture for a violation of the ordinance that is consistent 
with s. 961.71 or 961.72; except that if a complaint is issued regarding an allegation 
of possession of more than 25 grams of marijuana, or possession of any amount of 
marijuana following a conviction in this state for possession of marijuana alleging a 
violation of s. 961.72 (2) (b) 2. or (c) 3., the subject of the complaint may not be 
prosecuted under this paragraph for the same action that is the subject of the 
complaint unless the charges are dismissed or the district attorney declines to 
prosecute the case.
SECTION  1107 .  66.0129 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0129 (5)  BIDS FOR CONSTRUCTION .  The nonprofit corporation shall let all 
contracts exceeding $1,000 for the construction, maintenance or repair of hospital 
facilities to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising for bids by the 
publication of a class 2 notice under ch. 985.  Section Sections 66.0901 applies and 
66.0903 apply to bids and contracts under this subsection.
SECTION  1108 .  66.0134 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1109 .  66.0137 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0137 (4)  SELF-INSURED  HEALTH  PLANS .  If a city, including a 1st class city, 
or a village provides health care benefits under its home rule power, or if a town 
provides health care benefits, to its officers and employees on a self-insured basis, 
the self-insured plan shall comply with ss. 49.493 (3) (d), 631.89, 631.90, 631.93 (2), 
632.722, 632.729, 632.746 (10) (a) 2. and (b) 2., 632.747 (3), 632.7498, 632.798, 
632.848, 632.85, 632.851, 632.853, 632.855, 632.861, 632.862, 632.867, 632.87 (4) to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 787 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1109
(6) (8), 632.871, 632.885, 632.89, 632.891, 632.895 (9) to (17), 632.896, and 767.513 
(4).
SECTION  1110 .  66.0144 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1111 .  66.0211 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0211 (5)  CERTIFICATION  OF INCORPORATION .  If a majority of the votes in an 
incorporation referendum are cast in favor of a village or city, the clerk of the circuit 
court shall certify the fact to the secretary of administration and supply the 
secretary of administration with a copy of a description of the legal boundaries of 
the village or city and the associated population and a copy of a plat scale map of the 
village or city.  Within 10 days of receipt of the description and plat scale map, the 
secretary of administration shall forward  2 copies one copy to the department of 
transportation and one copy each to the department of administration and the 
department of revenue.  The secretary of administration shall issue a certificate of 
incorporation and record the certificate.
SECTION  1112 .  66.0215 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0215 (5)  CERTIFICATE  OF INCORPORATION .  If a majority of the votes are 
cast in favor of a city, the clerk shall certify the fact to the secretary of 
administration, together with the result of the census, if any, and  4 copies one copy 
of a description of the legal boundaries of the town and  4 copies one copy of a plat 
scale map of the town.  The secretary of administration shall then issue a certificate 
of incorporation, and record the certificate in a book kept for that purpose.  Two 
copies One copy of the description and plat scale map shall be forwarded by the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 788 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1112
secretary of administration to the department of transportation and one copy to the 
department of revenue.
SECTION  1113 .  66.02162 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.02162 (5)  CERTIFICATE  OF INCORPORATION .  If a majority of the votes are 
cast in favor of a village, the town clerk shall certify that fact to the secretary, 
together with  4 copies one copy of a description of the legal boundaries of the town, 
and  4 copies one copy of a plat scale map of the town.  The town clerk shall also send 
the secretary an incorporation fee of $1,000.  Upon receipt of the town clerk [s 
certification, the incorporation fee, and other required documents, the secretary 
shall issue a certificate of incorporation and record the certificate in a book kept for 
that purpose.  The secretary shall provide  2 copies one copy of the description and 
plat scale map to the department of transportation and one copy to the department 
of revenue.  The town clerk shall also transmit a copy of the certification and the 
resolution under sub. (1) to the county clerk.
SECTION  1114 .  66.0217 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0217 (1) (b)  XDepartment Y means the secretary of administration in the 
department of administration.
SECTION  1115 .  66.0217 (1) (c) 1. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0217 (1) (c) 1. a.  By government lot, section, township, and range.
SECTION  1116 .  66.0217 (1) (c) 1. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0217 (1) (c) 1. b.  By recorded private claim, section, township, and range.
SECTION  1117 .  66.0217 (9) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0217 (9) (a)  The clerk of a city or village which has annexed territory shall 
file immediately with the secretary of administration a certified copy of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 789 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1117
ordinance, certificate and plat scale map, and shall send one copy to each company 
that provides any utility service in the area that is annexed.  The city or village 
shall also file with the county clerk or board of election commissioners the report 
required by s. 5.15 (4) (b).  The clerk shall record the ordinance with the register of 
deeds and file a signed copy of the ordinance with the clerk of any affected school 
district.  Failure to file, record or send does not invalidate the annexation and the 
duty to file, record or send is a continuing one.  The ordinance that is filed, recorded 
or sent shall describe the annexed territory and the associated population.  The 
information filed with the secretary of administration shall be utilized in making 
recommendations for adjustments to entitlements under the federal revenue 
sharing program and distribution of funds under ch. 79.  The clerk shall certify 
annually, no later than December 31, to the secretary of administration and record 
with the register of deeds a legal description of the total boundaries of the 
municipality as those boundaries existed on December 1, unless there has been no 
change in the 12 months preceding.
SECTION  1118 .  66.0217 (9) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0217 (9) (b)  Within 10 days of receipt of the ordinance, certificate, and plat 
scale map, the secretary of administration shall forward  2 copies one copy of the 
ordinance, certificate, and plat scale map to the department of transportation, one 
copy to the department of administration, one copy to the department of revenue, 
one copy to the department of public instruction, one copy to the department, one 
copy to the department of natural resources, one copy to the department of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 790 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1118
agriculture, trade and consumer protection and 2 copies to the clerk of the 
municipality from which the territory was annexed.
SECTION  1119 .  66.0217 (9) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0217 (9) (c)  Any city or village may direct a survey of its present 
boundaries to be made, and when properly attested the survey and plat scale map 
may be filed in the office of the register of deeds in the county in which the city or 
village is located.  Upon filing, the survey and plat scale map are prima facie 
evidence of the facts set forth in the survey and plat scale map.
SECTION  1120 .  66.0217 (12) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0217 (12)  VALIDITY  OF PLATS  SCALE  MAPS .  If an annexation is declared 
invalid but before the declaration and subsequent to the annexation a plat scale 
map is submitted and is approved as required in s. 236.10 (1) (a), the plat scale map 
is validly approved despite the invalidity of the annexation.
SECTION  1121 .  66.0219 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0219 (7)  APPEAL .  An appeal from the order of the circuit court is limited to 
contested issues determined by the circuit court.  An appeal shall not stay the 
conduct of the referendum election, if one is ordered, but the statement of the 
election results and the copies of the certificate and plat scale map may not be filed 
with the secretary of administration until the appeal has been determined.
SECTION  1122 .  66.0221 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0221 (1)  Upon its own motion and subject to sub. (3) and ss. 66.0301 (6) (d) 
and 66.0307 (7), a city or village, by a two-thirds vote of the entire membership of its 
governing body, may enact an ordinance annexing territory which comprises a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 791 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1122
portion of a town or towns and which was completely surrounded by territory of the 
city or village on December 2, 1973.  The ordinance shall include all surrounded 
town areas except those that are exempt by mutual agreement of all of the 
governing bodies involved.  The annexation ordinance shall contain a legal 
description of the territory and the name of the town or towns from which the 
territory is detached.  Upon enactment of the ordinance, the city or village clerk 
immediately shall file  6  one certified copies copy of the ordinance with the 
secretary of administration, together with  6 copies one copy of a scale map.  The 
city or village shall also file with the county clerk or board of election 
commissioners the report required by s. 5.15 (4) (b).  The secretary of 
administration shall forward  2 copies one copy of the ordinance and scale map to 
the department of transportation, one copy to the department of natural resources, 
and one copy to the department of revenue and one copy to the department of 
administration.  This subsection does not apply if the town island was created only 
by the annexation of a railroad right-of-way or drainage ditch.  This subsection does 
not apply to land owned by a town government which has existing town government 
buildings located on the land.  No town island may be annexed under this 
subsection if the island consists of over 65 acres or contains over 100 residents.  
Section 66.0217 (11) applies to annexations under this subsection.  Except as 
provided in sub. (2), after December 2, 1973, no city or village may, by annexation, 
create a town area which is completely surrounded by the city or village.
SECTION  1123 .  66.0223 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0223 (1)  In addition to other methods provided by law and subject to sub. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 792 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1123
(2) and ss. 66.0301 (6) (d) and 66.0307 (7), territory owned by and lying near but not 
necessarily contiguous to a village or city may be annexed to a village or city by 
ordinance enacted by the board of trustees of the village or the common council of 
the city, provided that in the case of noncontiguous territory the use of the territory 
by the city or village is not contrary to any town or county zoning regulation.  The 
ordinance shall contain the exact description of the territory annexed and the 
names of the towns from which detached, and attaches the territory to the village or 
city upon the filing of  7  one certified copies copy of the ordinance with the 
secretary of administration, together with  7 copies one copy of a plat scale map 
showing the boundaries of the territory attached.  The city or village shall also file 
with the county clerk or board of election commissioners the report required by s. 
5.15 (4) (b).  Two copies One copy of the ordinance and plat scale map shall be 
forwarded by the secretary of administration to the department of transportation, 
one copy to the department of administration, one copy to the department of 
natural resources, one copy to the department of revenue, and one copy to the 
department of public instruction.  Within 10 days of filing the certified copies copy, 
a copy of the ordinance and plat scale map shall be mailed or delivered to the clerk 
of the county in which the annexed territory is located.  Sections 66.0203 (8) (c) and 
66.0217 (11) apply to annexations under this section.
SECTION  1124 .  66.0227 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0227 (5)  The ordinance, certificate and plat scale map shall be filed and 
recorded in the same manner as annexations under s. 66.0217 (9) (a).  The 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 793 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1124
requirements for the secretary of administration are the same as in s. 66.0217 (9) 
(b).
SECTION  1125 .  66.0231 of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0231   Notice of certain litigation affecting municipal status or 
boundaries.   If a proceeding under ss. 61.187, 61.189, 61.74, 62.075, 66.0201 to 
66.0213, 66.0215, 66.02162, 66.0217, 66.0221, 66.0223, 66.0227, 66.0301 (6), or 
66.0307 or other sections relating to an incorporation, annexation, consolidation, 
dissolution or detachment of territory of a city or village is contested by instigation 
of legal proceedings, the clerk of the city or village involved in the proceedings shall 
file with the secretary of administration  4 copies one copy of a notice of the 
commencement of the action.  The clerk shall file with the secretary of 
administration  4 copies one copy of any judgments rendered or appeals taken in 
such cases.  The notices or copies of judgments that are required under this section 
may also be filed by an officer or attorney of any party of interest.  If any judgment 
has the effect of changing the municipal boundaries, the city or village clerk shall 
also file with the county clerk or board of election commissioners the report 
required by s. 5.15 (4) (b).  The secretary of administration shall forward to the 
department of transportation  2 copies and to the department of revenue and the 
department of administration one copy each of any notice of action or judgment filed 
with the secretary of administration under this section.
SECTION  1126 .  66.0301 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0301 (1) (a)  Except as provided in pars. (b) and (c), in this section 
Xmunicipality Y means the state or any department or agency thereof, or any city, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 794 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1126
village, town, county, or school district, the opportunity schools and partnership 
programs under subch. IX of ch. 115 and subch. II of ch. 119, the superintendent of 
schools opportunity schools and partnership program under s. 119.33, or any public 
library system, public inland lake protection and rehabilitation district, sanitary 
district, farm drainage district, metropolitan sewerage district, sewer utility 
district, solid waste management system created under s. 59.70 (2), local exposition 
district created under subch. II of ch. 229, local professional baseball park district 
created under subch. III of ch. 229, local professional football stadium district 
created under subch. IV of ch. 229, local cultural arts district created under subch. 
V of ch. 229, transit authority created under s. 66.1039, long-term care district 
under s. 46.2895, water utility district, mosquito control district, municipal electric 
company, county or city transit commission, commission created by contract under 
this section, taxation district, regional planning commission, housing authority 
created under s. 66.1201, redevelopment authority created under s. 66.1333, 
community development authority created under s. 66.1335, or city-county health 
department.
SECTION  1127 .  66.0301 (6) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0301 (6) (e)  A boundary change included in an agreement under this 
subsection shall be accomplished by the enactment of an ordinance by the 
governing body designated to do so in the agreement.  The filing and recording 
requirements under s. 66.0217 (9) (a), as they apply to cities and villages under s. 
66.0217 (9) (a), apply to municipalities under this subsection.  If a boundary change 
is anticipated to be accomplished by the enactment of an ordinance more than 30 
days after entering into a written agreement for a boundary change under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 795 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1127
subsection, the clerk of the municipality designated in the plan shall follow the 
procedures under s. 66.0217 (9) (a) to file and record a certified copy of the 
agreement with the register of deeds.  The requirements for the secretary of 
administration under s. 66.0217 (9) (b), as they apply under that section, apply to 
the secretary of administration when he or she receives an ordinance that is filed 
under this subsection.
SECTION  1128 .  66.0307 (10) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0307 (10)  BOUNDARY  CHANGE  ORDINANCE  AGREEMENTS  AND ORDINANCES ; 
FILING  AND RECORDING  REQUIREMENTS .  A boundary change under a cooperative 
plan shall be accomplished by the enactment of an ordinance by the governing body 
designated to do so in the plan.  The filing and recording requirements under s. 
66.0217 (9) (a), as they apply to cities and villages under s. 66.0217 (9) (a), apply to 
municipalities under this subsection.  If a boundary change under a cooperative 
plan is anticipated to be accomplished by the enactment of an ordinance more than 
30 days after approval of the plan under sub. (4) (e) or (5), the clerk of the 
municipality designated in the plan shall follow the procedures under s. 66.0217 (9) 
(a) to file and record a certified copy of the agreement for a boundary change with 
the register of deeds.  The requirements for the secretary of administration are the 
same as those required in s. 66.0217 (9) (b).
SECTION  1129 .  66.0408 (2) (d) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1130 .  66.04185 of the statutes is created to read:
66.04185   Cultivation of tetrahydrocannabinols.   No city, village, town, or 
county may prohibit cultivating tetrahydrocannabinols outdoors if the cultivation is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 796 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1130
by an individual who has no more than 6 marijuana plants at one time for their 
personal use.
SECTION  1131 .  66.0501 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 66.0501 (1) (a) and 
amended to read:
66.0501 (1) (a)  No Except as provided in par. (b), no person may be appointed 
deputy sheriff of any county or police officer for any city, village, or town unless that 
person is a citizen of the United States.  This section does not apply to common 
carriers or to a deputy sheriff not required to take an oath of office.
SECTION  1132 .  66.0501 (1) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
66.0501 (1) (b)  The sheriff of a county or the appointing authority of a local 
law enforcement agency that provides police service to a city, village, or town may 
elect to authorize the appointment of noncitizens who are in receipt of valid 
employment authorization from the federal department of homeland security as 
deputy sheriffs for that county or as police officers for that city, village, or town.
SECTION  1133 .  66.0509 (1m) (c) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0509 (1m)  (c) 1.  A grievance procedure that addresses employee 
terminations, employee discipline, and workplace safety.
SECTION  1134 .  66.0509 (1m) (c) 2. of the statutes is repealed and recreated to 
read:
66.0509 (1m)  (c) 2.  A just cause standard of review for employee terminations, 
including a refusal to renew a teaching contract under s. 118.22.
SECTION  1135 .  66.0509 (1m) (c) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1136 .  66.0509 (1m) (d) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 797 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1136
66.0509 (1m)  (d) 2.  A hearing before an impartial hearing officer from the 
employment relations commission.
SECTION  1137 .  66.0509 (1m) (d) 4. and 5. of the statutes are created to read:
66.0509 (1m)  (d) 4.  A provision indicating that the grievant shall be entitled 
to representation throughout the grievance process.
5.  A provision indicating that the employer shall bear all fees and costs 
associated with the grievance process, except for the grievant [s representational 
fees and costs.
SECTION  1138 .  66.0602 (1) (ak) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0602 (1) (ak)  XJoint emergency medical services district Y serviceY means a 
joint emergency medical services district service organized by any combination of 2 
or more cities, villages, or towns under s. 66.0301 (2) through the formation of a 
joint emergency services district, joint ownership, joint purchase of services from a 
nonprofit corporation, or joint contracting with a public or private emergency 
services provider.
SECTION  1139 .  66.0602 (1) (am) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0602 (1) (am)  XJoint fire department Y service Y means a joint fire 
department organized under s. 61.65 (2) (a) 3. or 62.13 (1m), or a joint fire 
department service organized by any combination of 2 or more cities, villages, or 
towns under s. 66.0301 (2) through the formation of a joint fire service district, joint 
ownership, joint purchase of services from a nonprofit corporation, or joint 
contracting with a public or private fire service provider.
SECTION  1140 .  66.0602 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 798 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1140
66.0602 (2) (b)  For purposes of par. (a), in 2018, and in each year thereafter, 
the base amount to which the limit under this section applies is the actual levy for 
the immediately preceding year, plus the amount of the payments under ss. 79.07, 
79.096 and, 79.0965, and 79.098, and the levy limit is the base amount multiplied 
by the valuation factor, minus the amount of the payments under ss. 79.07, 79.096 
and, 79.0965, and 79.098, except that the adjustments for payments received under 
s. 79.096 or, 79.0965, or 79.098 do not apply to payments received under s. 79.096 
(3) or, 79.0965 (3), or 79.098 (3) for a tax incremental district that has been 
terminated.
SECTION  1141 .  66.0602 (2m) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
66.0602 (2m)  (c)  Rental inspection fees charged by a political subdivision are 
not subject to a deduction from the political subdivision [s levy.
SECTION  1142 .  66.0602 (3) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1143 .  66.0602 (3) (e) 10. of the statutes is created to read:
66.0602 (3) (e) 10.  The amount that a political subdivision levies in that year 
to pay for the political subdivision [s share of a regional planning commission [s 
budget as charged by the commission under s. 66.0309 (14) (a) to (c).
SECTION  1144 .  66.0602 (3) (h) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0602 (3) (h) 1.  Subject to subd. 2., the limit otherwise applicable under this 
section does not apply to the amount that a city, village, or town levies in that year 
to pay for charges assessed by a joint fire department service or a joint emergency 
medical services district service, but only to the extent that the amount levied to 
pay for such charges would cause the city, village, or town to exceed the limit that is 
otherwise applicable under this section.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 799 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1145
SECTION  1145 .  66.0602 (3) (h) 2. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0602 (3) (h) 2. a.  The total charges assessed by the joint fire department 
service or the joint emergency medical services district service for the current year 
increase, relative to the total charges assessed by the joint fire department service 
or the joint emergency medical services district service for the previous year, by a 
percentage that is less than or equal to the percentage change in the U.S. consumer 
price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, as determined by the U.S. 
department of labor, for the 12 months ending on August 31 of the year of the levy, 
plus 2 percent.
SECTION  1146 .  66.0602 (3) (h) 2. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0602 (3) (h) 2. b.  The governing body of each city, village, and town that is 
served by the joint fire department service or the joint emergency medical services 
district service adopts a resolution in favor of exceeding the limit as described in 
subd. 1.
SECTION  1147 .  66.0602 (3) (h) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
66.0602 (3) (h) 3.  Charges assessed by a joint fire service or joint emergency 
medical service under this paragraph include all fees charged to a city, village, or 
town by the the joint fire service or joint emergency medical service.
SECTION  1148 .  66.0602 (3) (p) of the statutes is created to read:
66.0602 (3) (p) 1.  Subject to subd. 2., the limit otherwise applicable under this 
section does not apply to the amount that a political subdivision levies in that year 
for operating and capital costs directly related to the provision of new or enhanced 
transit services across adjacent county borders or across adjacent municipal 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 800 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1148
borders.  For costs to be eligible for the exception under this paragraph, the starting 
date for the new or enhanced transit services must be on or after the effective date 
of this subdivision .... [LRB inserts date], and the costs to which the levy applies 
must be described in the agreement under subd. 2.
2.  A political subdivision may not use the exception under this paragraph 
unless all of the following apply:
a.  The political subdivisions between which the new or enhanced transit 
routes operate have entered into an intergovernmental cooperation agreement 
under s. 66.0301 to provide for the new or enhanced transit services.  The 
agreement shall describe the services and the amounts that must be levied to pay 
for those services.
b.  The agreement described in subd. 2. a. is approved in a referendum, by the 
electors in each political subdivision that is a party to the agreement, to be held at 
the next succeeding spring primary or election or partisan primary or general 
election to be held not earlier than 70 days after the adoption of the agreement by 
all of the parties to the agreement.  The governing body shall file the resolution to 
be submitted to the electors as provided in s. 8.37.
SECTION  1149 .  66.0617 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0617 (7)  LOW-COST  OR WORKFORCE  HOUSING .  An ordinance enacted under 
this section may provide for an exemption from, or a reduction in the amount of, 
impact fees on land development that provides low-cost housing, except that no or 
workforce housing, as defined in s. 66.1105 (2) (n).  Under no circumstances may the 
amount of an impact fee for which an exemption or reduction is provided under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 801 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1149
subsection may be shifted to any other development in the land development in 
which the low-cost housing or workforce housing is located or to any other land 
development in the municipality.
SECTION  1150 .  66.0823 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0823 (3) (b)  Filing requirements.   The parties entering into a contract 
under this subsection shall file a copy of the contract with the secretary of state 
administration.  Upon receipt, the secretary of state administration shall record the 
contract and issue a certificate of incorporation stating the name of the authority 
and the date and fact of incorporation.  The corporate existence of the authority 
begins upon issuance of the certificate.
SECTION  1151 .  66.0825 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0825 (4) (b)  Any contract entered into under this section shall be filed with 
the secretary of state administration.  Upon receipt, the secretary shall record the 
contract and issue a certificate of incorporation stating the name of the company 
and the date and fact of incorporation.  Upon issuance of the certificate, the 
existence of the company shall begin.
SECTION  1152 .  66.0901 (1) (ae) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1153 .  66.0901 (1) (am) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1154 .  66.0901 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0901 (6)  SEPARATION  OF CONTRACTS ; CLASSIFICATION  OF CONTRACTORS .  In 
public contracts for the construction, repair, remodeling or improvement of a public 
building or structure, other than highway structures and facilities, a municipality 
may bid projects based on a single or multiple division of the work.  Public contracts 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 802 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1154
shall be awarded according to the division of work selected for bidding.  Except as 
provided in sub. (6m), the The municipality may set out in any public contract 
reasonable and lawful conditions as to the hours of labor, wages, residence, 
character and classification of workers to be employed by any contractor, classify 
contractors as to their financial responsibility, competency and ability to perform 
work and set up a classified list of contractors.  The municipality may reject the bid 
of any person, if the person has not been classified for the kind or amount of work in 
the bid.
SECTION  1155 .  66.0901 (6m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1156 .  66.0901 (6s) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1157 .  66.0903 (1) (a), (am), (b), (cm), (dr), (em), (hm) and (im) of the 
statutes are created to read:
66.0903 (1) (a)  XAreaY means the county in which a proposed project of public 
works that is subject to this section is located or, if the department determines that 
there is insufficient wage data in that county, XareaY means those counties that are 
contiguous to that county or, if the department determines that there is insufficient 
wage data in those counties, XareaY means those counties that are contiguous to 
those counties or, if the department determines that there is insufficient wage data 
in those counties, XareaY means the entire state or, if the department is requested to 
review a determination under sub. (3) (br), XareaY means the city, village, or town in 
which a proposed project of public works that is subject to this section is located.
(am)  XBona fide economic benefit Y has the meaning given in s. 103.49 (1) (am).
(b)  XDepartment Y means the department of workforce development.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 803 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1157
(cm)  XInsufficient wage data Y has the meaning given in s. 103.49 (1) (bg).
(dr)  XMinor service or maintenance work Y means a project of public works 
that is limited to minor crack filling, chip or slurry sealing, or other minor 
pavement patching, not including overlays, that has a projected life span of no 
longer than 5 years or that is performed for a town and is not funded under s. 86.31, 
regardless of projected life span; the depositing of gravel on an existing gravel road 
applied solely to maintain the road; road shoulder maintenance; cleaning of 
drainage or sewer ditches or structures; or any other limited, minor work on public 
facilities or equipment that is routinely performed to prevent breakdown or 
deterioration.
(em)  XMultiple-trade project of public works Y has the meaning given in s. 
103.49 (1) (br).
(hm)  XSingle-trade project of public works Y has the meaning given in s. 103.49 
(1) (em).
(im)  XSupply and installation contract Y has the meaning given in s. 103.49 (1) 
(fm).
SECTION  1158 .  66.0903 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0903 (1) (c)  XHourly basic rate of pay Y has the meaning given in s. 16.856 
103.49 (1) (b), 2015 stats.
SECTION  1159 .  66.0903 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0903 (1) (f)  XPrevailing hours of labor Y has the meaning given in s. 16.856 
103.49 (1) (e), 2015 stats. (c).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 804 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1160
SECTION  1160 .  66.0903 (1) (g) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to 
read:
66.0903 (1) (g)  XPrevailing wage rate Y has the meaning given in s. 103.49 (1) 
(d).
SECTION  1161 .  66.0903 (1) (j) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0903 (1) (j)  XTruck driver Y includes an owner-operator of a truck has the 
meaning given in s. 103.49 (1) (g).
SECTION  1162 .  66.0903 (1m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.0903 (1m)  (b)  The legislature finds that the enactment of ordinances or 
other enactments by local governmental units requiring laborers, workers, 
mechanics, and truck drivers employed on projects of public works or on publicly 
funded private construction projects to be paid the prevailing wage rate and to be 
paid at least 1.5 times their hourly basic rate of pay for hours worked in excess of the 
prevailing hours of labor would be logically inconsistent with, would defeat the 
purpose of, and would go against the repeals spirit of this section and the repeal of 
s. 66.0904, 2009 stats., and s. 66.0903 (2) to (12), 2013 stats.  Therefore, this section 
shall be construed as an enactment of statewide concern for the purposes of 
facilitating broader participation with respect to bidding on projects of public 
works, ensuring that wages accurately reflect market conditions, providing local 
governments with the flexibility to reduce costs on capital projects, and reducing 
spending at all levels of government in this state purpose of providing uniform 
prevailing wage rate and prevailing hours of labor requirements throughout the 
state.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 805 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
SECTION  1163 .  66.0903 (2) to (12) of the statutes are created to read:
66.0903 (2)  APPLICABILITY .  Subject to sub. (5), this section applies to any 
project of public works erected, constructed, repaired, remodeled, or demolished for 
a local governmental unit, including all of the following:
(a)  A highway, street, bridge, building, or other infrastructure project.
(b)  A project erected, constructed, repaired, remodeled, or demolished by one 
local governmental unit for another local governmental unit under a contract under 
s. 66.0301 (2), 83.03, 83.035, or 86.31 (2) (b) or under any other statute specifically 
authorizing cooperation between local governmental units.
(c)  A project in which the completed facility is leased, purchased, lease 
purchased, or otherwise acquired by, or dedicated to, a local governmental unit in 
lieu of the local governmental unit contracting for the erection, construction, repair, 
remodeling, or demolition of the facility.
(d)  A road, street, bridge, sanitary sewer, or water main project in which the 
completed road, street, bridge, sanitary sewer, or water main is acquired by, or 
dedicated to, a local governmental unit, including under s. 236.13 (2), for ownership 
or maintenance by the local governmental unit.
(3)  PREVAILING  WAGE  RATES  AND HOURS  OF LABOR .  (am)  A local governmental 
unit, before making a contract by direct negotiation or soliciting bids on a contract 
for the erection, construction, remodeling, repairing, or demolition of any project of 
public works, shall apply to the department to determine the prevailing wage rate 
for each trade or occupation required in the work contemplated.  The department 
shall conduct investigations and hold public hearings as necessary to define the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 806 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
trades or occupations that are commonly employed on projects of public works that 
are subject to this section and to inform itself of the prevailing wage rates in all 
areas of the state for those trades or occupations, in order to determine the 
prevailing wage rate for each trade or occupation.  The department shall issue its 
determination within 30 days after receiving the request and shall file the 
determination with the requesting local governmental unit.
(ar)  The department shall, by January 1 of each year, compile the prevailing 
wage rates for each trade or occupation in each area.  The compilation shall, in 
addition to the current prevailing wage rates, include future prevailing wage rates 
when those prevailing wage rates can be determined for any trade or occupation in 
any area and shall specify the effective date of those future prevailing wage rates.  
If a project of public works extends into more than one area, the department shall 
determine only one standard of prevailing wage rates for the entire project.
(av)  In determining prevailing wage rates under par. (am) or (ar), the 
department may not use data from projects that are subject to this section, s. 103.49 
or 103.50, or 40 USC 3142 unless the department determines that there is 
insufficient wage data in the area to determine those prevailing wage rates, in 
which case the department may use data from projects that are subject to this 
section, s. 103.49 or 103.50, or 40 USC 3142.  In determining prevailing wage rates 
under par. (am) or (ar), the department may not use data from any construction 
work that is performed by a local governmental unit or a state agency.
(bm)  Any person may request a recalculation of any portion of an initial 
determination within 30 days after the initial determination date if the person 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 807 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
submits evidence with the request showing that the prevailing wage rate for any 
given trade or occupation included in the initial determination does not represent 
the prevailing wage rate for that trade or occupation in the area.  The evidence shall 
include wage rate information reflecting work performed by individuals working in 
the contested trade or occupation in the area during the current survey period.  The 
department shall affirm or modify the initial determination within 15 days after 
the date on which the department receives the request for recalculation.
(br)  In addition to the recalculation under par. (bm), the local governmental 
unit that requested the determination under this subsection may request a review 
of any portion of a determination within 30 days after the date of issuance of the 
determination if the local governmental unit submits evidence with the request 
showing that the prevailing wage rate for any given trade or occupation included in 
the determination does not represent the prevailing wage rate for that trade or 
occupation in the city, village, or town in which the proposed project of public works 
is located.  That evidence shall include wage rate information for the contested 
trade or occupation on at least 3 similar projects located in the city, village, or town 
where the proposed project of public works is located and on which some work has 
been performed during the current survey period and which were considered by the 
department in issuing its most recent compilation under par. (ar).  The department 
shall affirm or modify the determination within 15 days after the date on which the 
department receives the request for review.
(dm)  A local governmental unit that is subject to this section shall include a 
reference to the prevailing wage rates determined by the department and to the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 808 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
prevailing hours of labor in the notice published for the purpose of securing bids for 
the project of public works.  Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, if any 
contract or subcontract for a project of public works is entered into, the prevailing 
wage rates determined by the department and the prevailing hours of labor shall be 
physically incorporated into and made a part of the contract or subcontract.  For a 
minor subcontract, as determined by the department, the department shall 
prescribe by rule the method of notifying the minor subcontractor of the prevailing 
wage rates and prevailing hours of labor applicable to the minor subcontract.  The 
prevailing wage rates and prevailing hours of labor applicable to a contract or 
subcontract may not be changed during the time that the contract or subcontract is 
in force.
(e)  No contractor, subcontractor, or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent that 
is subject to this section may do any of the following:
1.  Pay an individual performing the work described in sub. (4) less than the 
prevailing wage rate in the same or most similar trade or occupation determined 
under this subsection.
2.  Allow an individual performing the work described in sub. (4) to work a 
greater number of hours per day or per week than the prevailing hours of labor, 
unless the contractor, subcontractor, or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent pays 
the individual for all hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor at a 
rate of at least 1.5 times the individual [s hourly basic rate of pay.
(4)  COVERED  EMPLOYEES .  (a)  Subject to par. (b), any person subject to this 
section shall pay all of the following employees the prevailing wage rate determined 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 809 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
under sub. (3) and may not allow such employees to work a greater number of hours 
per day or per week than the prevailing hours of labor, unless the person pays the 
employee for all hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor at a rate of 
at least 1.5 times the employee [s hourly basic rate of pay:
1.  All laborers, workers, mechanics, and truck drivers employed on the site of 
a project of public works that is subject to this section.
2.  All laborers, workers, mechanics, and truck drivers employed in the 
manufacturing or furnishing of materials, articles, supplies, or equipment on the 
site of a project of public works that is subject to this section or from a facility 
dedicated exclusively, or nearly so, to a project of public works that is subject to this 
section by a contractor, subcontractor, agent, or other person performing any work 
on the site of the project.
(b)  A laborer, worker, mechanic, or truck driver who is employed to process, 
manufacture, pick up, or deliver materials or products from a commercial 
establishment that has a fixed place of business from which the establishment 
supplies processed or manufactured materials or products or from a facility that is 
not dedicated exclusively, or nearly so, to a project of public works that is subject to 
this section is not entitled to receive the prevailing wage rate determined under 
sub. (3) or to receive at least 1.5 times his or her hourly basic rate of pay for all hours 
worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor unless any of the following applies:
1.  The laborer, worker, mechanic, or truck driver is employed to go to the 
source of mineral aggregate such as sand, gravel, or stone and deliver that mineral 
aggregate to the site of a project of public works that is subject to this section by 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 810 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
depositing the material directly in final place, from the transporting vehicle or 
through spreaders from the transporting vehicle.
2.  The laborer, worker, mechanic, or truck driver is employed to go to the site 
of a project of public works that is subject to this section, pick up excavated material 
or spoil from the site of the project, and transport that excavated material or spoil 
away from the site of the project.
(c)  A person subject to this section shall pay a truck driver who is an owner-
operator of a truck separately for his or her work and for the use of his or her truck.
(5)  NONAPPLICABILITY .  This section does not apply to any of the following:
(a)  A single-trade project of public works for which the estimated project cost 
of completion is less than $48,000, a multiple-trade project of public works for which 
the estimated project cost of completion is less than $100,000, or, in the case of a 
multiple-trade project of public works erected, constructed, repaired, remodeled, or 
demolished by a private contractor for a city or village having a population of less 
than 2,500 or for a town, a multiple-trade project of public works for which the 
estimated project cost of completion is less than $234,000.
(b)  Work performed on a project of public works for which the local 
governmental unit contracting for the project is not required to compensate any 
contractor, subcontractor, contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent, or individual for 
performing the work.
(c)  Minor service or maintenance work, warranty work, or work under a 
supply and installation contract.
(f)  A project of public works involving the erection, construction, repair, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 811 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
remodeling, or demolition of a residential property containing 2 dwelling units or 
less.
(g)  A road, street, bridge, sanitary sewer, or water main project that is a part 
of a development in which not less than 90 percent of the lots contain or will contain 
2 dwelling units or less, as determined by the local governmental unit at the time of 
approval of the development, and that, on completion, is acquired by, or dedicated 
to, a local governmental unit, including under s. 236.13 (2), for ownership or 
maintenance by the local governmental unit.
(8)  POSTING .  A local governmental unit that has contracted for a project of 
public works shall post the prevailing wage rates determined by the department, 
the prevailing hours of labor, and the provisions of subs. (10) (a) and (11) (a) in at 
least one conspicuous place on the site of the project that is easily accessible by 
employees working on the project, or, if there is no common site on the project, at the 
place normally used by the local governmental unit to post public notices.
(9)  COMPLIANCE .  (a)  When the department finds that a local governmental 
unit has not requested a determination under sub. (3) (am) or that a local 
governmental unit, contractor, or subcontractor has not physically incorporated a 
determination into a contract or subcontract as required under this section or has 
not notified a minor subcontractor of a determination in the manner prescribed by 
the department by rule promulgated under sub. (3) (dm), the department shall 
notify the local governmental unit, contractor, or subcontractor of the 
noncompliance and shall file the determination with the local governmental unit, 
contractor, or subcontractor within 30 days after the notice.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 812 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
(b)  Upon completion of a project of public works and before receiving final 
payment for his or her work on the project, each agent or subcontractor shall 
furnish the contractor with an affidavit stating that the agent or subcontractor has 
complied fully with the requirements of this section.  A contractor may not 
authorize final payment until the affidavit is filed in proper form and order.
(c)  Upon completion of a project of public works and before receiving final 
payment for his or her work on the project, each contractor shall file with the local 
governmental unit authorizing the work an affidavit stating that the contractor has 
complied fully with the requirements of this section and that the contractor has 
received an affidavit under par. (b) from each of the contractor [s agents and 
subcontractors.  A local governmental unit may not authorize a final payment until 
the affidavit is filed in proper form and order.  If a local governmental unit 
authorizes a final payment before an affidavit is filed in proper form and order or if 
the department determines, based on the greater weight of the credible evidence, 
that any person performing the work specified in sub. (4) has been or may have been 
paid less than the prevailing wage rate or less than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate 
of pay for all hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor and requests 
that the local governmental unit withhold all or part of the final payment, but the 
local governmental unit fails to do so, the local governmental unit is liable for all 
back wages payable up to the amount of the final payment.
(10)  R ECORDS ; INSPECTION ; ENFORCEMENT .  (a)  Each contractor, 
subcontractor, or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent that performs work on a 
project of public works that is subject to this section shall keep full and accurate 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 813 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
records clearly indicating the name and trade or occupation of every individual 
performing the work described in sub. (4) and an accurate record of the number of 
hours worked by each of those individuals and the actual wages paid for the hours 
worked.
(b)  The department or the contracting local governmental unit may demand 
and examine, and every contractor, subcontractor, and contractor [s or 
subcontractor [s agent shall keep, and furnish upon request by the department or 
local governmental unit, copies of payrolls and other records and information 
relating to the wages paid to individuals performing the work described in sub. (4) 
for work to which this section applies.  The department may inspect records in the 
manner provided in ch. 103.  Every contractor, subcontractor, or agent performing 
work on a project of public works that is subject to this section is subject to the 
requirements of ch. 103 relating to the examination of records.
(c)  If requested by any person, the department shall inspect the payroll 
records of any contractor, subcontractor, or agent performing work on a project of 
public works that is subject to this section as provided in this paragraph to ensure 
compliance with this section.  On receipt of such a request, the department shall 
request that the contractor, subcontractor, or agent submit to the department a 
certified record of the information specified in par. (a), other than personally 
identifiable information relating to an employee of the contractor, subcontractor, or 
agent, for no longer than a 4-week period.  The department may request that a 
contractor, subcontractor, or agent submit those records no more than once per 
calendar quarter for each project of public works on which the contractor, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 814 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
subcontractor, or agent is performing work.  The department may not charge a 
requester a fee for obtaining that information.  Certified records submitted to the 
department under this paragraph are open for public inspection and copying under 
s. 19.35 (1).
(d)  Section 103.005 (5) (f), (11), (12), and (13) applies to this section, except 
that s. 103.005 (12) (a) does not apply to a person who fails to provide any 
information to the department to assist the department in determining prevailing 
wage rates under sub. (3) (am) or (ar).  Section 111.322 (2m) applies to discharge 
and other discriminatory acts arising in connection with any proceeding under this 
section, including proceedings under sub. (11) (a).
(11)  L IABILITY  AND PENALTIES .  (a) 1.  A contractor, subcontractor, or 
contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent who fails to pay the prevailing wage rate 
determined by the department under sub. (3) or who pays less than 1.5 times the 
hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of 
labor is liable to any affected employee in the amount of his or her unpaid wages or 
his or her unpaid overtime compensation and in an additional amount as liquidated 
damages as provided under subd. 2. or 3., whichever is applicable.
2.  If the department determines upon inspection under sub. (10) (b) or (c) that 
a contractor, subcontractor, or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent has failed to 
pay the prevailing wage rate determined by the department under sub. (3) or has 
paid less than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 
the prevailing hours of labor, the department shall order the contractor to pay to 
any affected employee the amount of his or her unpaid wages or his or her unpaid 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 815 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
overtime compensation and an additional amount equal to 100 percent of the 
amount of those unpaid wages or that unpaid overtime compensation as liquidated 
damages within a period specified by the department in the order.
3.  In addition to or in lieu of recovering the liability specified in subd. 1. as 
provided in subd. 2., any employee for and on behalf of that employee and other 
employees similarly situated may commence an action to recover that liability in 
any court of competent jurisdiction.  If the court finds that a contractor, 
subcontractor, or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent has failed to pay the 
prevailing wage rate determined by the department under sub. (3) or has paid less 
than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of the 
prevailing hours of labor, the court shall order the contractor, subcontractor, or 
agent to pay to any affected employee the amount of his or her unpaid wages or his 
or her unpaid overtime compensation and an additional amount equal to 100 
percent of the amount of those unpaid wages or that unpaid overtime compensation 
as liquidated damages.
5.  No employee may be a party plaintiff to an action under subd. 3. unless the 
employee consents in writing to become a party and the consent is filed in the court 
in which the action is brought.  Notwithstanding s. 814.04 (1), the court shall, in 
addition to any judgment awarded to the plaintiff, allow reasonable attorney fees 
and costs to be paid by the defendant.
(b) 1.  Except as provided in subds. 2., 4., and 6., any contractor, subcontractor, 
or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent who violates this section may be fined not 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 816 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
more than $200 or imprisoned for not more than 6 months or both.  Each day that 
any violation continues is a separate offense.
2.  Whoever induces any individual who seeks to be or is employed on any 
project of public works that is subject to this section to give up, waive, or return any 
part of the wages to which the individual is entitled under the contract governing 
the project, or who reduces the hourly basic rate of pay normally paid to an 
individual for work on a project that is not subject to this section during a week in 
which the individual works both on a project of public works that is subject to this 
section and on a project that is not subject to this section, by threat not to employ, by 
threat of dismissal from employment, or by any other means is guilty of an offense 
under s. 946.15 (1).
3.  Any individual employed on a project of public works that is subject to this 
section who knowingly allows a contractor, subcontractor, or contractor [s or 
subcontractor [s agent to pay him or her less than the prevailing wage rate set forth 
in the contract governing the project, who gives up, waives, or returns any part of 
the compensation to which he or she is entitled under the contract, or who gives up, 
waives, or returns any part of the compensation to which he or she is normally 
entitled for work on a project that is not subject to this section during a week in 
which the individual works both on a project of public works that is subject to this 
section and on a project that is not subject to this section, is guilty of an offense 
under s. 946.15 (2).
4.  Whoever induces any individual who seeks to be or is employed on any 
project of public works that is subject to this section to allow any part of the wages 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 817 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
to which the individual is entitled under the contract governing the project to be 
deducted from the individual [s pay is guilty of an offense under s. 946.15 (3), unless 
the deduction would be allowed under 29 CFR 3.5 or 3.6 from an individual who is 
working on a project that is subject to 40 USC 3142.
5.  Any individual who is employed on a project of public works that is subject 
to this section who knowingly allows any part of the wages to which he or she is 
entitled under the contract governing the project to be deducted from his or her pay 
is guilty of an offense under s. 946.15 (4), unless the deduction would be allowed 
under 29 CFR 3.5 or 3.6 from an individual who is working on a project that is 
subject to 40 USC 3142.
6.  Subdivision 1. does not apply to any person who fails to provide any 
information to the department to assist the department in determining prevailing 
wage rates under sub. (3) (am) or (ar).
(12)  D EBARMENT .  (a)  Except as provided under pars. (b) and (c), the 
department shall notify any local governmental unit applying for a determination 
under sub. (3) of the names of all persons that the department has found to have 
failed to pay the prevailing wage rate determined under sub. (3) or has found to 
have paid less than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in 
excess of the prevailing hours of labor at any time in the preceding 3 years.  The 
department shall include with each name the address of the person and shall 
specify when the person failed to pay the prevailing wage rate and when the person 
paid less than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 
the prevailing hours of labor.  A local governmental unit may not award any 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 818 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
contract to the person unless otherwise recommended by the department or unless 
3 years have elapsed from the date the department issued its findings or the date of 
final determination by a court of competent jurisdiction, whichever is later.
(b)  The department may not include in a notification under par. (a) the name 
of any person on the basis of having subcontracted a contract for a project of public 
works to a person that the department has found to have failed to pay the prevailing 
wage rate determined under sub. (3) or has found to have paid less than 1.5 times 
the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of 
labor.
(c)  This subsection does not apply to any contractor, subcontractor, or agent 
who in good faith commits a minor violation of this section, as determined on a case-
by-case basis through administrative hearings with all rights to due process 
afforded to all parties or who has not exhausted or waived all appeals.
(d)  Any person submitting a bid or negotiating a contract on a project of public 
works that is subject to this section shall, on the date the person submits the bid or 
negotiates the contract, identify any construction business in which the person, or a 
shareholder, officer, or partner of the person, if the person is a business, owns, or 
has owned at least a 25 percent interest on the date the person submits the bid or 
negotiates the contract or at any other time within 3 years preceding the date the 
person submits the bid or negotiates the contract, if the business has been found to 
have failed to pay the prevailing wage rate determined under sub. (3) or to have 
paid less than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 
the prevailing hours of labor.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 819 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1163
(e)  The department shall promulgate rules to administer this subsection.
SECTION  1164 .  66.10012 of the statutes is created to read:
66.10012   Workforce housing.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XHousing agency Y means the department of administration.
(b)  XHousing grant Y means any grant administered by the department of 
administration under s. 16.303 or 16.309.
(c)  XPolitical subdivision Y means any city, village, town, or county.
(d)  XWorkforce housing Y means housing to which all of the following apply, as 
adjusted for family size and the county in which the household is located, based on 
the county [s 5-year average median income and housing costs as calculated by the 
U.S. bureau of the census in its American community survey:
1.  The housing costs a household no more than 30 percent of the household [s 
gross median income.
2.  The residential units of the housing are for initial occupancy by individuals 
whose household median income is no more than 120 percent of the county [s gross 
median income.
(2)  HOUSING  INITIATIVES .  (a)  Subject to par. (b), to implement a workforce 
housing initiative, a political subdivision may enact an ordinance, adopt a 
resolution, or put into effect a policy to accomplish any of the following:
1.  Reduce by at least 10 percent the processing time for all permits related to 
workforce housing.
2.  Reduce by at least 10 percent the cost of impact fees that a political 
subdivision may impose on developments that include workforce housing units.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 820 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1164
3.  Reduce by at least 10 percent the parking requirements for developments 
that include workforce housing units.
4.  Increase by at least 10 percent the allowable zoning density for 
developments that include workforce housing units.
5.  Establish a mixed-use tax incremental district with at least 20 percent of 
the housing units to be used for workforce housing.
6.  Demonstrate compliance with a housing affordability report under s. 
66.10013.
7.  Rehabilitate at least 5 dwelling units of existing, uninhabitable housing 
stock into habitable workforce housing.
8.  Modify existing zoning ordinances to allow for the development of workforce 
housing in areas zoned for commercial or mixed-use development or in areas near 
employment centers or major transit corridors.
9.  Extend the life of a tax incremental district under s. 66.1105 (6) (g) 1.
10.  Reduce by at least 10 percent the cost of roads for developments that 
include workforce housing units.
11.  Implement any other initiative to address the workforce housing needs of 
the political subdivision.
(b)  After a political subdivision completes one of the actions specified in par. 
(a), the workforce housing initiative shall be considered in effect once the political 
subdivision submits to the department of administration a written explanation of 
how the action complies with the workforce housing initiative and posts the 
explanation on the political subdivision [s website.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 821 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1164
(c)  Once a political subdivision [s action takes effect under par. (b), its 
workforce housing initiative remains in effect for 5 years.  A political subdivision 
may put into effect more than one of the workforce housing initiatives under par. 
(a).  After June 30, 2026, if a political subdivision has in effect at the same time at 
least 3 of the workforce housing initiatives under par. (a), the housing agency shall 
give priority to housing grant applications from, or that relate to a project in, the 
political subdivision.  The department of administration shall promulgate rules 
establishing how and based on what information the department will give priority 
to housing grant applications under this paragraph and prescribing the form of 
application for receiving priority.
SECTION  1165 .  66.1010 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1166 .  66.1011 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1011 (1)  DECLARATION  OF POLICY .  The right of all persons to have equal 
opportunities for housing regardless of their sex, race, color, disability, as defined in 
s. 106.50 (1m) (g), sexual orientation, as defined in s. 111.32 (13m), religion, 
national origin, marital status, family status, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (k), status 
as a victim of domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, as defined in s. 106.50 
(1m) (u), lawful source of income, receipt of rental or housing assistance, as defined 
in s. 106.50 (1m) (rm), age, or ancestry is a matter both of statewide concern under 
ss. 101.132 and 106.50 and also of local interest under this section and s. 66.0125.  
The enactment of ss. 101.132 and 106.50 by the legislature does not preempt the 
subject matter of equal opportunities in housing from consideration by political 
subdivisions, and does not exempt political subdivisions from their duty, nor 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 822 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1166
deprive them of their right, to enact ordinances that prohibit discrimination in any 
type of housing solely on the basis of an individual being a member of a protected 
class.
SECTION  1167 .  66.1011 (1) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act 
.... (this act), is amended to read:
66.1011 (1)  DECLARATION  OF POLICY .  The right of all persons to have equal 
opportunities for housing regardless of their sex, race, color, disability, as defined in 
s. 106.50 (1m) (g), sexual orientation, as defined in s. 111.32 (13m), religion, 
national origin, marital status, family status, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (k), status 
as a victim of domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, as defined in s. 106.50 
(1m) (u), status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), lawful 
source of income, receipt of rental or housing assistance, as defined in s. 106.50 
(1m) (rm), age, or ancestry is a matter both of statewide concern under ss. 101.132 
and 106.50 and also of local interest under this section and s. 66.0125.  The 
enactment of ss. 101.132 and 106.50 by the legislature does not preempt the subject 
matter of equal opportunities in housing from consideration by political 
subdivisions, and does not exempt political subdivisions from their duty, nor 
deprive them of their right, to enact ordinances that prohibit discrimination in any 
type of housing solely on the basis of an individual being a member of a protected 
class.
SECTION  1168 .  66.1039 of the statutes is created to read:
66.1039   Transit authorities.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XAuthority Y means a transit authority created under this section.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 823 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
(b)  XBondsY means any bonds, interim certificates, notes, debentures, or other 
obligations of an authority issued under this section.
(c)  XCommon carrier Y means any of the following:
1.  A common motor carrier, as defined in s. 194.01 (1).
2.  A contract motor carrier, as defined in s. 194.01 (2).
3.  A railroad subject to ch. 195, as described in s. 195.02 (1) and (3).
4.  A water carrier, as defined in s. 195.02 (5).
(d)  XComprehensive unified local transportation system Y means a 
transportation system that is comprised of motor bus lines and any other local 
public transportation facilities, the major portion of which is located within, or the 
major portion of the service of which is supplied to the inhabitants of, the 
jurisdictional area of the authority.
(em)  XMetropolitan area Y means a metropolitan statistical area as designated 
by the U.S. office of management and budget.
(f)  XMunicipality Y means any city, village, or town.
(g)  XParticipating political subdivision Y means a political subdivision that is a 
member of an authority, either from the time of creation of the authority or by later 
joining the authority.
(h)  XPolitical subdivision Y means a municipality or county.
(i)  XTransportation system Y means all land, shops, structures, equipment, 
property, franchises, and rights of whatever nature required for transportation of 
passengers within the jurisdictional area of the authority and, only to the extent 
specifically authorized under this section, outside the jurisdictional area of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 824 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
authority.  XTransportation system Y includes elevated railroads, subways, 
underground railroads, motor vehicles, motor buses, and any combination thereof, 
and any other form of mass transportation, but does not include transportation 
excluded from the definition of Xcommon motor carrier Y under s. 194.01 (1) or 
charter or contract operations to, from, or between points that are outside the 
jurisdictional area of the authority.
(2)  C REATION  OF TRANSIT  AUTHORITIES .  (f)  Statewide regional transit 
authorities .  1.  Any 2 or more political subdivisions located within the same 
metropolitan area may jointly create a transit authority that is a public body 
corporate and politic and a separate governmental entity and that is known by a 
name that includes the words Xregional transit authority, Y if the governing body of 
each political subdivision adopts a resolution authorizing the political subdivision 
to become a member of the authority and all the resolutions are identical to each 
other.  Except as provided in subd. 2. and sub. (13), once created, the members of the 
authority shall consist of all political subdivisions that adopt resolutions, as 
provided in this subdivision.  Once created, the authority may transact business 
and exercise any powers granted to it under this section.
2.  After an authority is created under subd. 1., any political subdivision 
located in whole or in part within a metropolitan area located in whole or in part 
within an authority [s jurisdiction may join the authority if the governing body of 
the political subdivision adopts a resolution identical to the existing resolutions of 
the authority [s participating political subdivisions and the authority [s board of 
directors approves the political subdivision [s joinder.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 825 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
3.  The jurisdictional area of an authority created under this paragraph is the 
geographic area formed by the combined territorial boundaries of all participating 
political subdivisions of the authority.
(3)  TRANSIT  AUTHORITY  GOVERNANCE .  (a)  The powers of an authority shall be 
vested in its board of directors.  Directors shall be appointed for 4-year terms.  A 
majority of the board of directors [ full authorized membership constitutes a quorum 
for the purpose of conducting the authority [s business and exercising its powers.  
Action may be taken by the board of directors upon a vote of a majority of the 
directors present and voting, unless the bylaws of the authority require a larger 
number.
(fm)  The board of directors of an authority created under sub. (2) (f) consists of 
the following members:
1.  One member from each participating political subdivision that is a county, 
appointed by the county executive of each county and approved by the county board 
except that, if the county does not have an elected county executive, the member 
shall be appointed by the county board chairperson and approved by the county 
board.
2.  One member from each of the two participating political subdivisions that 
are municipalities, if any, having the highest population, appointed by the mayor 
and approved by the common council or appointed by the village president and 
approved by the village board or appointed by the town board chairperson and 
approved by the town board, as applicable.
3.  One member appointed by the governor.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 826 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
4.  Not more than 2 members from participating political subdivisions that are 
municipalities other than those identified under subd. 2., appointed by the mayor 
and approved by the common council or appointed by the village president and 
approved by the village board or appointed by the town board chairperson and 
approved by the town board, as applicable.  If the authority opts to include members 
under this subdivision on the board of directors, the bylaws of the authority shall 
include a provision specifying a method by which the members appointed under 
this subdivision shall rotate among the participating political subdivisions not 
entitled to make an appointment under subd. 2.
(g)  The bylaws of an authority shall govern its management, operations, and 
administration, consistent with the provisions of this section, and shall include 
provisions specifying all of the following:
1.  The functions or services to be provided by the authority.
2.  The powers, duties, and limitations of the authority.
3.  The maximum rate of the taxes that may be imposed by the authority under 
sub. (4) (s), not to exceed the maximum rate specified in s. 77.708 (1).
(4)  POWERS .  Notwithstanding s. 59.84 (2) and any other provision of this 
chapter or ch. 59 or 85, an authority may do all of the following, to the extent 
authorized in the authority [s bylaws:
(a)  Establish, maintain, and operate a comprehensive unified local 
transportation system primarily for the transportation of persons.
(b)  Acquire a comprehensive unified local transportation system and provide 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 827 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
funds for the operation and maintenance of the system.  Upon the acquisition of a 
comprehensive unified local transportation system, the authority may:
1.  Operate and maintain it or lease it to an operator or contract for its use by 
an operator.
2.  Contract for superintendence of the system with an organization that has 
personnel with the requisite experience and skill.
3.  Delegate responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the system to 
an appropriate administrative officer, board, or commission of a participating 
political subdivision.
4.  Maintain and improve railroad rights-of-way and improvements on these 
rights-of-way for future use.
(c)  Contract with a public or private organization to provide transportation 
services in lieu of directly providing these services.
(d)  Purchase and lease transportation facilities to public or private transit 
companies that operate within and outside the jurisdictional area.
(e)  Apply for federal aids to purchase transportation facilities considered 
essential for the authority [s operation.
(f)  Coordinate specialized transportation services, as defined in s. 85.21 (2) 
(g), for residents who reside within the jurisdictional area and who are disabled or 
aged 60 or older, including services funded under 42 USC 3001 to 3057o, 42 USC 
5001, and 42 USC 5011 (b), under ss. 49.43 to 49.499 and 85.21, and under other 
public funds administered by the county.  An authority may contract with a county 
that is a participating political subdivision for the authority to provide specialized 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 828 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
transportation services, but an authority is not an eligible applicant under s. 85.21 
(2) (e) and may not receive payments directly from the department of transportation 
under s. 85.21.
(g)  Acquire, own, hold, use, lease as lessor or lessee, sell or otherwise dispose 
of, mortgage, pledge, or grant a security interest in any real or personal property or 
service.
(h)  Acquire property by condemnation using the procedure under s. 32.05 for 
the purposes set forth in this section.
(i)  Enter upon any state, county, or municipal street, road, or alley, or any 
public highway for the purpose of installing, maintaining, and operating the 
authority [s facilities.  Whenever the work is to be done in a state, county, or 
municipal highway, street, road, or alley, the public authority having control thereof 
shall be duly notified, and the highway, street, road, or alley shall be restored to as 
good a condition as existed before the commencement of the work with all costs 
incident to the work to be borne by the authority.
(j)  Fix, maintain, and revise fees, rates, rents, and charges for functions, 
facilities, and services provided by the authority.
(k)  Make, and from time to time amend and repeal, bylaws, rules, and 
regulations to carry into effect the powers and purposes of the authority.
(L)  Sue and be sued in its own name.
(m)  Have and use a corporate seal.
(n)  Employ agents, consultants, and employees, engage professional services, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 829 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
and purchase such furniture, stationery, and other supplies and materials as are 
reasonably necessary to perform its duties and exercise its powers.
(o)  Incur debts, liabilities, or obligations including the borrowing of money 
and the issuance of bonds under subs. (7) and (10).
(p)  Invest any funds held in reserve or sinking funds, or any funds not 
required for immediate disbursement, including the proceeds from the sale of any 
bonds, in such obligations, securities, and other investments as the authority deems 
proper in accordance with s. 66.0603 (1m).
(q)  Do and perform any acts and things authorized by this section under, 
through, or by means of an agent or by contracts with any person.
(r)  Exercise any other powers that the board of directors considers necessary 
and convenient to effectuate the purposes of the authority, including providing for 
passenger safety.
(s)  Impose, by the adoption of a resolution by the board of directors, the taxes 
under subch. V of ch. 77 in the authority [s jurisdictional area.  If an authority 
adopts a resolution to impose the taxes, it shall deliver a certified copy of the 
resolution to the department of revenue at least 120 days before its effective date.  
The authority may, by adoption of a resolution by the board of directors, repeal the 
imposition of taxes under subch. V of ch. 77 and shall deliver a certified copy of the 
repeal resolution to the department of revenue at least 120 days before its effective 
date.
(5)  LIMITATIONS  ON AUTHORITY  POWERS .  (a)  Notwithstanding sub. (4) (a), (b), 
(c), (d), (q), and (r), no authority, and no public or private organization with which 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 830 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
an authority has contracted for service, may provide service outside the 
jurisdictional area of the authority unless the authority receives financial support 
for the service under a contract with a public or other private organization for the 
service or unless it is necessary in order to provide service to connect residents 
within the authority [s jurisdictional area to transit systems in adjacent counties.
(b)  Whenever the proposed operations of an authority would be competitive 
with the operations of a common carrier in existence prior to the time the authority 
commences operations, the authority shall coordinate proposed operations with the 
common carrier to eliminate adverse financial impact for the carrier.  This 
coordination may include route overlapping, transfers, transfer points, schedule 
coordination, joint use of facilities, lease of route service, and acquisition of route 
and corollary equipment.  If this coordination does not result in mutual agreement, 
the proposals of the authority and the common carrier shall be submitted to the 
department of transportation for arbitration.
(c)  In exercising its powers under sub. (4), an authority shall consider any 
plan of a metropolitan planning organization under 23 USC 134 that covers any 
portion of the authority [s jurisdictional area.
(6)  A UTHORITY  OBLIGATIONS  TO EMPLOYEES  OF MASS  TRANSPORTATION  
SYSTEMS .  (a)  An authority acquiring a comprehensive unified local transportation 
system for the purpose of the authority [s operation of the system shall assume all of 
the employer [s obligations under any contract between the employees and 
management of the system to the extent allowed by law.
(b)  An authority acquiring, constructing, controlling, or operating a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 831 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
comprehensive unified local transportation system shall negotiate an agreement 
with the representative of the labor organization that covers the employees affected 
by the acquisition, construction, control, or operation to protect the interests of 
employees affected.  This agreement shall include all of the provisions identified in 
s. 59.58 (4) (b) 1. to 8. and may include provisions identified in s. 59.58 (4) (c).  An 
affected employee has all the rights and the same status under subch. IV of ch. 111 
that he or she enjoyed immediately before the acquisition, construction, control, or 
operation and may not be required to serve a probationary period if he or she 
attained permanent status before the acquisition, construction, control, or 
operation.
(c)  In all negotiations under this subsection, a senior executive officer of the 
authority shall be a member of the authority [s negotiating body.
(7)  BONDS ; GENERALLY .  (a)  An authority may issue bonds, the principal and 
interest on which are payable exclusively from all or a portion of any revenues 
received by the authority.  The authority may secure its bonds by a pledge of any 
income or revenues from any operations, rent, aids, grants, subsidies, 
contributions, or other source of moneys whatsoever.
(b)  An authority may issue bonds in such principal amounts as the authority 
deems necessary.
(c) 1.  Neither the members of the board of directors of an authority nor any 
person executing the bonds is personally liable on the bonds by reason of the 
issuance of the bonds.
2.  The bonds of an authority are not a debt of the participating political 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 832 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
subdivisions.  Neither the participating political subdivisions nor the state are 
liable for the payment of the bonds.  The bonds of any authority shall be payable 
only out of funds or properties of the authority.  The bonds of the authority shall 
state the restrictions contained in this paragraph on the face of the bonds.
(8)  ISSUANCE  OF BONDS .  (a)  Bonds of an authority shall be authorized by 
resolution of the board of directors.  The bonds may be issued under such a 
resolution or under a trust indenture or other security instrument.  The bonds may 
be issued in one or more series and may be in the form of coupon bonds or registered 
bonds under s. 67.09.  The bonds shall bear the dates, mature at the times, bear 
interest at the rates, be in the denominations, have the rank or priority, be executed 
in the manner, be payable in the medium of payment and at the places, and be 
subject to the terms of redemption, with or without premium, as the resolution, 
trust indenture, or other security instrument provides.  Bonds of an authority are 
issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and are public 
instrumentalities and, together with interest and income, are exempt from taxes.
(b)  The authority may sell the bonds at public or private sales at the price or 
prices determined by the authority.
(c)  If an officer whose signatures appear on any bonds or coupons ceases to be 
an officer of the authority before the delivery of the bonds or coupons, the officer [s 
signature shall, nevertheless, be valid for all purposes as if the officer had remained 
in office until delivery of the bonds or coupons.
(9)  COVENANTS .  An authority may do all of the following in connection with 
the issuance of bonds:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 833 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
(a)  Covenant as to the use of any or all of its property, real or personal.
(b)  Redeem the bonds, or covenant for the redemption of the bonds, and 
provide the terms and conditions of the redemption.
(c)  Covenant as to charge fees, rates, rents, and charges sufficient to meet 
operating and maintenance expenses, renewals, and replacements of any 
transportation system, principal and debt service on bonds creation and 
maintenance of any reserves required by a bond resolution, trust indenture, or 
other security instrument and to provide for any margins or coverages over and 
above debt service on the bonds that the board of directors considers desirable for 
the marketability of the bonds.
(d)  Covenant as to the events of default on the bonds and the terms and 
conditions upon which the bonds shall become or may be declared due before 
maturity, as to the terms and conditions upon which this declaration and its 
consequences may be waived, and as to the consequences of default and the 
remedies of bondholders.
(e)  Covenant as to the mortgage or pledge of, or the grant of a security interest 
in, any real or personal property and all or any part of the revenues of the authority 
to secure the payment of bonds, subject to any agreements with the bondholders.
(f)  Covenant as to the custody, collection, securing, investment, and payment 
of any revenues, assets, moneys, funds, or property with respect to which the 
authority may have any rights or interest.
(g)  Covenant as to the purposes to which the proceeds from the sale of any 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 834 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
bonds may be applied, and as to the pledge of such proceeds to secure the payment 
of the bonds.
(h)  Covenant as to limitations on the issuance of any additional bonds, the 
terms upon which additional bonds may be issued and secured, and the refunding 
of outstanding bonds.
(i)  Covenant as to the rank or priority of any bonds with respect to any lien or 
security.
(j)  Covenant as to the procedure by which the terms of any contract with or for 
the benefit of the holders of bonds may be amended or abrogated, the amount of 
bonds, the holders of which must consent thereto, and the manner in which such 
consent may be given.
(k)  Covenant as to the custody and safekeeping of any of its properties or 
investments, the insurance to be carried on the property or investments, and the 
use and disposition of insurance proceeds.
(L)  Covenant as to the vesting in one or more trustees, within or outside the 
state, of those properties, rights, powers, and duties in trust as the authority 
determines.
(m)  Covenant as to the appointing of, and providing for the duties and 
obligations of, one or more paying agent or other fiduciaries within or outside the 
state.
(n)  Make all other covenants and do any act that may be necessary or 
convenient or desirable in order to secure its bonds or, in the absolute discretion of 
the authority, tend to make the bonds more marketable.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 835 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
(o)  Execute all instruments necessary or convenient in the exercise of the 
powers granted under this section or in the performance of covenants or duties, 
which may contain such covenants and provisions as a purchaser of the bonds of the 
authority may reasonably require.
(10)  REFUNDING  BONDS .  An authority may issue refunding bonds for the 
purpose of paying any of its bonds at or prior to maturity or upon acceleration or 
redemption.  An authority may issue refunding bonds at such time prior to the 
maturity or redemption of the refunded bonds as the authority deems to be in the 
public interest.  The refunding bonds may be issued in sufficient amounts to pay or 
provide the principal of the bonds being refunded, together with any redemption 
premium on the bonds, any interest accrued or to accrue to the date of payment of 
the bonds, the expenses of issue of the refunding bonds, the expenses of redeeming 
the bonds being refunded, and such reserves for debt service or other capital or 
current expenses from the proceeds of such refunding bonds as may be required by 
the resolution, trust indenture, or other security instruments.  To the extent 
applicable, refunding bonds are subject to subs. (8) and (9).
(11)  BONDS  ELIGIBLE  FOR INVESTMENT .  (a)  Any of the following may invest 
funds, including capital in their control or belonging to them, in bonds of the 
authority:
1.  Public officers and agencies of the state.
2.  Local governmental units, as defined in s. 19.42 (7u).
3.  Insurance companies.
4.  Trust companies.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 836 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
5.  Banks.
6.  Savings banks.
7.  Savings and loan associations.
8.  Investment companies.
9.  Personal representatives.
10.  Trustees.
11.  Other fiduciaries not listed in this paragraph.
(b)  The authority [s bonds are securities that may be deposited with and 
received by any officer or agency of the state or any local governmental unit, as 
defined in s. 19.42 (7u), for any purpose for which the deposit of bonds or obligations 
of the state or any local governmental unit is authorized by law.
(12)  BUDGETS ; RATES  AND CHARGES ; AUDIT .  The board of directors of an 
authority shall annually prepare a budget for the authority.  Rates and other 
charges received by the authority shall be used only for the general expenses and 
capital expenditures of the authority, to pay interest, amortization, and retirement 
charges on bonds, and for specific purposes of the authority and may not be 
transferred to any political subdivision.  The authority shall maintain an 
accounting system in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and 
shall have its financial statements and debt covenants audited annually by an 
independent certified public accountant.
(13)  WITHDRAWAL  FROM  AUTHORITY .  A participating political subdivision that 
joined an authority under sub. (2) (f) 2. may withdraw from an authority if all of the 
following conditions are met:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 837 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1168
(a)  The governing body of the political subdivision adopts a resolution 
requesting withdrawal of the political subdivision from the authority.
(b)  The political subdivision has paid, or made provision for the payment of, 
all obligations of the political subdivision to the authority.
(14)  D UTY TO PROVIDE  TRANSIT  SERVICE .  An authority shall provide, or 
contract for the provision of, transit service within the authority [s jurisdictional 
area.
(17)  OTHER  STATUTES .  This section does not limit the powers of political 
subdivisions to enter into intergovernmental cooperation or contracts or to 
establish separate legal entities under s. 66.0301 or 66.1021 or any other applicable 
law, or otherwise to carry out their powers under applicable statutory provisions.  
Section 66.0803 (2) does not apply to an authority.
SECTION  1169 .  66.1105 (2) (ab) of the statutes is renumbered 66.1105 (2) (n) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
66.1105 (2) (n) (intro.)  XAffordable Workforce housing Y means housing that 
costs a household no more than 30 percent of the household [s gross monthly income. 
to which all of the following apply, as adjusted for family size and the county in 
which the household is located, based on the county [s 5-year average median income 
and housing costs as calculated by the U.S. bureau of the census in its American 
community survey:
SECTION  1170 .  66.1105 (2) (cm) of the statutes is renumbered 66.1105 (2) 
(cm) (intro.) and amended to read:
66.1105 (2) (cm) (intro.)  XMixed-use development Y means development that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 838 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1170
contains a combination of industrial, commercial, or residential uses, except that 
lands proposed for newly platted residential use, as shown in the project plan, may 
not exceed 35 either of the following:
1.  Thirty-five percent, by area, of the real property within the district.
SECTION  1171 .  66.1105 (2) (cm) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
66.1105 (2) (cm) 2.  Sixty percent, by area, of the real property within the 
district if the newly platted residential use that exceeds 35 percent is used solely for 
workforce housing.
SECTION  1172 .  66.1105 (2) (n) 1. of the statutes is created to read:
66.1105 (2) (n) 1.  The housing costs a household no more than 30 percent of 
the household [s gross median income.
SECTION  1173 .  66.1105 (2) (n) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
66.1105 (2) (n) 2.  The residential units of the housing are for initial occupancy 
by individuals whose household median income is no more than 120 percent of the 
county[s gross median income.
SECTION  1174 .  66.1105 (4) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1105 (4) (f)  Adoption by the planning commission of a project plan for each 
tax incremental district and submission of the plan to the local legislative body.  
The plan shall include a statement listing the kind, number and location of all 
proposed public works or improvements within the district or, to the extent 
provided in sub. (2) (f) 1. k. and 1. n., outside the district, an economic feasibility 
study, a detailed list of estimated project costs, and a description of the methods of 
financing all estimated project costs and the time when the related costs or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 839 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1174
monetary obligations are to be incurred.  The project plan shall also contain 
alternative projections of the district [s finances and economic feasibility under 
different economic scenarios, including the scenario in which work on a public work 
or improvement specified in the project plan begins 3 years later than expected and 
the scenario in which the rate of property value growth in the district is at least 10 
percent lower than expected.  The plan shall also include a map showing existing 
uses and conditions of real property in the district; a map showing proposed 
improvements and uses in the district; proposed changes of zoning ordinances, 
master plan, if any, map, building codes and city ordinances; a list of estimated 
nonproject costs; and a statement of the proposed method for the relocation of any 
persons to be displaced.  The plan shall indicate how creation of the tax incremental 
district promotes the orderly development of the city.  The city shall include in the 
plan an opinion of the city attorney or of an attorney retained by the city advising 
whether the plan is complete and complies with this section.
SECTION  1175 .  66.1105 (4) (gm) 4. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1105 (4) (gm) 4. c.  Except as provided in subs. (10) (c), (16) (d), (17), (18) (c) 
3., (20) (b), and (20m) (d) 1., the equalized value of taxable property of the district 
plus the value increment of all existing districts does not exceed 12 percent of the 
total equalized value of taxable property within the city or that sub. (17) (h) applies.  
In determining the equalized value of taxable property under this subd. 4. c., the 
department of revenue shall base its calculations on the most recent equalized 
value of taxable property of the district that is reported under s. 70.57 (1m) before 
the date on which the resolution under this paragraph is adopted.  If the 
department of revenue determines that a local legislative body exceeds the 12 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 840 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1175
percent limit described in this subd. 4. c. and that sub. (17) (h) does not apply, the 
department shall notify the city of its noncompliance, in writing, not later than 
December 31 of the year in which the department receives the completed 
application or amendment forms described in sub. (5) (b).
SECTION  1176 .  66.1105 (4) (h) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
66.1105 (4) (h) 3.  The planning commission may, by resolution, amend the 
declaration under par. (gm) 6. to reclassify the district as a mixed-use district.  The 
amendment is subject to approval by the local legislative body and the joint review 
board acting under sub. (4m).  The amendment under this subdivision shall be 
concurrent with an amendment under subd. 1. to the project plan of the district.  
The planning commission shall ensure that the percentage of lands in the district 
proposed for newly platted residential use does not exceed the percentage specified 
in sub. (2) (cm) and that at least one of the conditions specified under sub. (2) (f) 3. 
a. to c. applies to the district.  Adoption of an amendment to a classification shall be 
preceded by a public hearing held by the planning commission at which interested 
parties shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to express their views on the 
amendment.  Notice of the hearing shall be published as a class 1 notice, under ch. 
985.  The notice shall include a statement of the purpose and cost of the amendment 
and shall advise that a copy of the amendment will be provided on request.  Before 
publication, a copy of the notice shall be sent to the chief executive officer or 
administrator of all local governmental entities having the power to levy taxes on 
property within the district and to the school board of any school district which 
includes property located within the proposed district.  For a county with no chief 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 841 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1176
executive officer or administrator, this notice shall be sent to the county board 
chairperson.
SECTION  1177 .  66.1105 (4m) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1105 (4m)  (b) 2.  No tax incremental district may be created and no project 
plan may be amended unless the board approves the resolution adopted under sub. 
(4) (gm) or (h) 1., and no tax incremental base may be redetermined under sub. (5) 
(h) unless the board approves the resolution adopted under sub. (5) (h) 1., by a 
majority vote within 45 days after receiving the resolution.  For actions described 
under this subdivision, a majority vote is required, and, except for a 
multijurisdictional tax incremental district, 3 affirmative votes are required to 
constitute a majority, except that no tax incremental district classification may be 
amended unless the board unanimously approves the resolution adopted under sub. 
(4) (h) 3. within 45 days after receiving the resolution.  With regard to a 
multijurisdictional tax incremental district created under this section, each public 
member of a participating city must be part of the majority that votes for approval 
of the resolution or the district may not be created.  The board may not approve the 
resolution under this subdivision unless the board [s approval contains a positive 
assertion that, in its judgment, the development described in the documents the 
board has reviewed under subd. 1. would not occur without the creation of a tax 
incremental district.  The board may not approve the resolution under this 
subdivision unless the board finds that, with regard to a tax incremental district 
that is proposed to be created by a city under sub. (17) (a), such a district would be 
the only existing district created under that subsection by that city.
SECTION  1178 .  66.1105 (6) (g) 1. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 842 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1178
66.1105 (6) (g) 1. (intro.)  After Subject to subd. 1m., after the date on which a 
tax incremental district created by a city pays off the aggregate of all of its project 
costs, and notwithstanding the time at which such a district would otherwise be 
required to terminate under sub. (7), a city may extend the life of the district for one 
year 3 years if the city does all of the following:
SECTION  1179 .  66.1105 (6) (g) 1. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1105 (6) (g) 1. a.  The city adopts a resolution extending the life of the 
district for a specified number of months.  The resolution shall specify how the city 
intends to improve its housing stock or increase the number of affordable and 
workforce housing stock units, as required in subd. 3.
SECTION  1180 .  66.1105 (6) (g) 1. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1105 (6) (g) 1. b.  The city forwards a copy of the resolution under subd. 1. a. 
and, if the extension is for more than one year, a copy of the resolution under subd. 
1m., to the department of revenue, notifying the department that it must continue 
to authorize the allocation of tax increments to the district under par. (a).
SECTION  1181 .  66.1105 (6) (g) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
66.1105 (6) (g) 1m.  An extension under subd. 1. may not be for more than one 
year unless the joint review board approves, by resolution, the extension under 
subd. 1.
SECTION  1182 .  66.1105 (6) (g) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1105 (6) (g) 3.  If a city receives tax increments as described in subd. 2., the 
city shall use at least 75 percent of the increments received that are not supporting 
housing stock improvements to benefit affordable housing in the city.  The 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 843 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1182
remaining portion of the increments shall be used by the city to improve the city [s 
increase the number of the city [s affordable and workforce housing stock units, with 
at least 50 percent of the funds supporting units for families with incomes of up to 
60 percent of the county [s median household income.
SECTION  1183 .  66.1105 (7m) of the statutes is created to read:
66.1105 (7m)   CLASSIFICATION  CHANGES .  Notwithstanding subs. (6) and (7), 
an amendment to the classification of a district under sub. (4) (h) 3. does not affect 
the expenditure or allocation periods or lifespan of the district.
SECTION  1184 .  66.1105 (17) (h) of the statutes is created to read:
66.1105 (17) (h)  Forthcoming termination.   If a city certifies all of the 
following to the department of revenue, the department may certify the tax 
incremental base under sub. (5) (d) notwithstanding the equalized value of taxable 
property of the district plus the value increment of all existing districts exceeding 
12 percent of the total equalized value of taxable property within the city:
1.  That, not later than one year after the certification under this paragraph, 
districts having sufficient value increments will terminate so that the city will no 
longer exceed the 12 percent limit described under sub. (4) (gm) 4. c.
2.  That the city will not take any action that would extend the life of any 
district whose termination is necessary to satisfy subd. 1.
SECTION  1185 .  66.1201 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1201 (2m)   D ISCRIMINATION .  Persons otherwise entitled to any right, 
benefit, facility, or privilege under ss. 66.1201 to 66.1211 may not be denied the 
right, benefit, facility, or privilege in any manner for any purpose nor be 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 844 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1185
discriminated against because of sex, race, color, creed, national origin, sexual 
orientation, status as a victim of domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, as 
defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (u), or national origin status as a holder or nonholder of a 
license under s. 343.03 (3r).
SECTION  1186 .  66.1213 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1213 (3)  DISCRIMINATION .  Persons otherwise entitled to any right, benefit, 
facility, or privilege under this section may not be denied the right, benefit, facility, 
or privilege in any manner for any purpose nor be discriminated against because of 
sex, race, color, creed, national origin, sexual orientation, status as a victim of 
domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (u), or 
national origin status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r).
SECTION  1187 .  66.1301 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1301 (2m)   DISCRIMINATION .  Persons entitled to any right, benefit, facility, 
or privilege under ss. 66.1301 to 66.1329 may not be denied the right, benefit, 
facility, or privilege in any manner for any purpose nor be discriminated against 
because of sex, race, color, creed, national origin, sexual orientation, status as a 
victim of domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) 
(u), or national origin status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 
(3r).
SECTION  1188 .  66.1305 (1) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1305 (1) (h)  Dissolve without obtaining the approval of the local governing 
body, which may be given upon conditions deemed necessary or appropriate to the 
protection of the interest of the city in the proceeds of the sale of the real property as 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 845 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1188
to any property or work turned into the development by the city.  The approval shall 
be endorsed on the certificate of dissolution and the certificate may not be filed in 
the office of the secretary of state administration in the absence of the 
endorsement.
SECTION  1189 .  66.1333 (3) (e) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
66.1333 (3) (e) 2.  Persons otherwise entitled to any right, benefit, facility, or 
privilege under this section may not be denied the right, benefit, facility, or 
privilege in any manner for any purpose nor be discriminated against because of 
sex, race, color, creed, national origin, sexual orientation, status as a victim of 
domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (u), or 
national origin status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r).
SECTION  1190 .  67.01 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
67.01 (5)  XMunicipality Y means any of the following which is authorized to 
levy a tax: a county, city, village, town, school district, board of park commissioners, 
technical college district, metropolitan sewerage district created under ss. 200.01 to 
200.15 or 200.21 to 200.65, town sanitary district under subch. IX of ch. 60, transit 
authority created under s. 66.1039, public inland lake protection and rehabilitation 
district established under s. 33.23, 33.235, or 33.24, and any other public body 
empowered to borrow money and issue obligations to repay the money out of public 
funds or revenues.  XMunicipality Y does not include the state.
SECTION  1191 .  69.03 (15) of the statutes is amended to read:
69.03 (15)  Periodically provide to each county child support agency under s. 
59.53 (5) a list of names and, notwithstanding s. 69.20 (2) (a), addresses of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 846 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1191
registrants who reside in that county for whom no father [s only one parent [s name 
has been inserted on the registrant [s birth record within 6 months of birth.
SECTION  1192 .  69.11 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
69.11 (4) (b)  The state registrar may amend an item on a birth record that 
affects information about the name, sex, date of birth, place of birth, parent [s name, 
or parent [s marital status of the mother if 365 days have elapsed since the 
occurrence of the event that is the subject of the birth record, if the amendment is at 
the request of a person with a direct and tangible interest in the record and is in the 
manner prescribed by the state registrar, and if the amendment is accompanied by 
2 items of documentary evidence from early childhood that are sufficient to prove 
that the item to be changed is in error and by the affidavit of the person requesting 
the amendment.  A change in the marital status on the birth record may be made 
under this paragraph only if the marital status is inconsistent with information 
concerning the father or husband that appears on the birth record.  This paragraph 
may not be used to add to or delete from a birth record the name of a parent, to 
change the identity of a parent named on the birth record, or to effect a name 
change prohibited under s. 301.47.
SECTION  1193 .  69.12 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
69.12 (5)  A change in the marital status on the record of birth may be 
requested under this section only if the marital status is inconsistent with father or 
husband information appearing on the birth record.  This section may not be used 
to add or delete the name of a parent on the record of birth or change the identity of 
either parent named on the birth record.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 847 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1194
SECTION  1194 .  69.13 (2) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
69.13 (2) (b) 4.  If relevant to the correction sought, a certified copy of a 
marriage document, divorce or annulment record, or a final divorce decree that 
indicates that the mother was not married to the person listed as her husband 
spouse at any time during the pregnancy, a legal name change order, or any other 
legal document that clarifies the disputed information.
SECTION  1195 .  69.14 (1) (c) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
69.14 (1) (c) 4.  In the absence of a person under subds. 1. to 3., the father or 
mother, father, or mother [s spouse, or in the absence of the father or the mother [s 
spouse and the inability of the mother, the person responsible for the premises 
where the birth occurs.
SECTION  1196 .  69.14 (1) (e) (title) and 1. of the statutes are amended to read:
69.14 (1) (e) (title)  Father[s Spouse [s or father [s name.   1.  If Except as provided 
in par. (h), if the mother of a registrant under this section was married at any time 
from the conception to the birth of the registrant, the name of the husband spouse 
of the mother shall be entered on the birth record as the a legal father parent of the 
registrant.  The name of the father parent entered under this subdivision may not 
be changed except by a proceeding under ch. 767.
SECTION  1197 .  69.14 (1) (f) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
69.14 (1) (f) 1. a.  Except as provided under subd. 1. b., if the mother of a 
registrant of a birth record under this section is married to the father of the 
registrant at any time from the conception to the birth of the registrant, the given 
name and surname which that the mother and father of the registrant and her 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 848 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1197
spouse enter for the registrant on the birth record shall be the given name and 
surname filed and registered on the birth record.
b.  If the mother of a registrant of a birth record under this section is married 
to the father of the registrant at any time from the conception to the birth of the 
registrant and the mother is separated or divorced from the father of the registrant 
at the time of birth, the given name and surname which that the parent of the 
registrant with actual custody enters for the registrant on the birth record shall be 
the given name and surname filed and registered on the birth record, except that if 
a court has granted legal custody of the registrant, the given name and surname 
which that the person with legal custody enters for the registrant on the birth 
record shall be the given name and surname filed and registered on the birth 
record.
c.  If the mother of a registrant of a birth record under this section is not 
married to the father of the registrant at any time from the conception to the birth 
of the registrant, the given name and surname which that the mother of the 
registrant enters for the registrant on the birth record shall be the given name and 
surname filed and registered on the birth record, except that if a court has granted 
legal custody of the registrant, the given name and surname which that the person 
with legal custody enters for the registrant on the birth record shall be the given 
name and surname filed and registered on the birth record.
SECTION  1198 .  69.14 (1) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
69.14 (1) (g)  Birth by artificial insemination.   If the registrant of a birth 
record under this section is born as a result of artificial insemination under the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 849 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1198
requirements of s. 891.40, the husband spouse of the woman person inseminated 
shall be considered the father a parent of the registrant on the birth record.  If the 
registrant is born as a result of artificial insemination which does not satisfy the 
requirements of s. 891.40, the information about the father of the registrant shall be 
omitted from the registrant [s birth record.
SECTION  1199 .  69.14 (2) (b) 2. d. of the statutes is amended to read:
69.14 (2) (b) 2. d.  The full name of the father or the mother [s spouse, except 
that if the mother was not married at the time of conception or birth or between 
conception and birth of the registrant, the name of the father may not be entered 
except as provided under s. 69.15 (3).
SECTION  1200 .  69.15 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
69.15 (1)  BIRTH  RECORD  INFORMATION  CHANGES .  The state registrar may 
change information on a birth record registered in this state which was correct at 
the time the birth record was filed under a court or administrative order issued in 
this state, in another state or in Canada or under the valid order of a court of any 
federally recognized Indian tribe, band, or nation if all of the following occur:
(a)  The order provides for an adoption, name change, or name change with sex 
change or establishes paternity; and or parentage.
(b)  A clerk of court or, for a paternity or parentage action, a clerk of court or 
county child support agency under s. 59.53 (5), sends the state registrar a certified 
report of an order of a court in this state in the method prescribed by the state 
registrar or, in the case of any other order, the state registrar receives a certified 
copy of the order and the proper fee under s. 69.22.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 850 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1201
SECTION  1201 .  69.15 (3) (title) and (a) (intro.), 1., 2. and 3. of the statutes are 
amended to read:
69.15 (3) (title)  P ATERNITY  PARENTAGE .  (a) (intro.)  If the state registrar 
receives an order under sub. (1) that establishes paternity or determines that the 
man person whose name appears on a registrant [s birth record is not the father 
parent of the registrant, or a report under s. 767.804 (1) (c) that shows a conclusive 
determination of paternity, the state registrar shall do the following, as 
appropriate:
1.  Prepare under sub. (6) a new record omitting the father [s parent [s name if 
the order determines that the man person whose name appears on a registrant [s 
birth record is not the father parent of the registrant and if there is no adjudicated 
father.
2.  Prepare under sub. (6) a new record for the subject of a paternity action 
changing the name of the father parent if the name of the adjudicated father is 
different than the name of the man person on the birth record.
3.  Except as provided under subd. 4., insert the name of the adjudicated or 
conclusively determined father on the original birth record if the name of the father 
that parent was omitted on the original record.
SECTION  1202 .  69.15 (3) (b) 1., 2., 3. and 4. (intro.), a. and b. of the statutes 
are amended to read:
69.15 (3) (b) 1.  Except as provided under par. (c), if the state registrar receives 
a statement acknowledging paternity parentage in the manner prescribed by the 
state registrar and signed by both of the birth natural parents of a child determined 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 851 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1202
to be a marital child under s. 767.803, a certified copy of the parents [ marriage 
record, and the fee required under s. 69.22 (5) (b) 1., the state registrar shall insert 
the name of the husband spouse of the person who gave birth from the marriage 
record as the father parent if the name of the father that parent was omitted on the 
original birth record.  The state registrar shall include for the acknowledgment the 
items in s. 767.813 (5g).
2.  Except as provided under par. (c), if the parent of a child determined to be 
a marital child under s. 767.803 dies after his or her marriage and before the 
statement acknowledging paternity parentage has been signed, the state registrar 
shall insert the name of the father parent under subd. 1. upon receipt of a court 
order determining that the husband spouse was the father parent of the child.
3.  Except as provided under par. (c), if the state registrar receives a statement 
acknowledging paternity parentage in the method prescribed by the state registrar 
and signed by both parents, neither of whom was under the age of 18 years when 
the form was signed, along with the fee under s. 69.22, the state registrar shall 
insert the name of the father parent under subd. 1.  The state registrar shall mark 
the record to show that the acknowledgement is on file.  The acknowledgement shall 
be available to the department of children and families or a county child support 
agency under s. 59.53 (5) pursuant to the program responsibilities under s. 49.22 or 
to any other person with a direct and tangible interest in the record.  The state 
registrar shall include on the acknowledgment the information in s. 767.805 and 
the items in s. 767.813 (5g).
4. (intro.)  If a registrant has not reached the age of 18 years and if any of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 852 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1202
following indicate, in a statement acknowledging paternity parentage under subd. 
1. or 3., that the given name or surname, or both, of the registrant should be 
changed on the birth record, the state registrar shall enter the name indicated on 
the birth record without a court order:
a.  The mother of the parent who gave birth to the registrant, except as 
provided under subd. 4. b. and c.
b.  The father of natural parent who did not give birth to the registrant if the 
father that parent has legal custody of the registrant.
SECTION  1203 .  69.15 (3) (b) 3m. of the statutes is created to read:
69.15 (3) (b) 3m.  Except as provided in par. (c), if the state registrar receives 
an acknowledgement of parentage on a form prescribed by the state registrar and 
signed by both of the people presumed to be natural parents under s. 891.41 (1) (b), 
a certified copy of the parents [ marriage certificate, and the fee required under s. 
69.22 (5) (b) 1., the state registrar shall insert the name of the spouse from the 
marriage certificate as a parent if the name of that parent was omitted on the 
original birth certificate.
SECTION  1204 .  69.15 (3) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
69.15 (3) (d)  The method prescribed by the state registrar for acknowledging 
paternity parentage shall require that the social security number of each of the 
registrant [s parents be provided.
SECTION  1205 .  69.15 (3m) (title) and (a) (intro.) of the statutes are amended 
to read:
69.15 (3m)  (title)  R ESCISSION  OF STATEMENT  ACKNOWLEDGING  PATERNITY  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 853 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1205
PARENTAGE .  (a) (intro.)  A statement acknowledging paternity parentage that is 
filed with the state registrar under sub. (3) (b) 3. may be rescinded by either person 
who signed the statement as a parent of the registrant if all of the following apply:
SECTION  1206 .  69.15 (3m) (a) 3. and (b) of the statutes are amended to read:
69.15 (3m) (a) 3.  The person rescinding the statement files a rescission in the 
method prescribed under subd. 2. before the day on which a court or circuit court 
commissioner makes an order in an action affecting the family involving the man 
person who signed the statement and the child who is the subject of the statement 
or before 60 days elapse after the statement was filed, whichever occurs first.
(b)  If the state registrar, within the time required under par. (a) 3., receives a 
rescission in the method prescribed by the state registrar, along with the proper fee 
under s. 69.22, the state registrar shall prepare under sub. (6) a new record 
omitting the father [s parent [s name if it was inserted under sub. (3) (b).
SECTION  1207 .  70.11 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
70.11 (2)  M UNICIPAL  PROPERTY  AND PROPERTY  OF CERTAIN  DISTRICTS , 
EXCEPTION .  Property owned by any county, city, village, town, school district, 
technical college district, public inland lake protection and rehabilitation district, 
metropolitan sewerage district, municipal water district created under s. 198.22, 
joint local water authority created under s. 66.0823, transit authority created under 
s. 66.1039, regional planning commission created under s. 66.0309, long-term care 
district under s. 46.2895, or town sanitary district; lands belonging to cities of any 
other state used for public parks; land tax-deeded to any county or city before 
January 2; but any residence located upon property owned by the county for park 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 854 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1207
purposes that is rented out by the county for a nonpark purpose shall not be exempt 
from taxation.  Except as to land acquired under s. 59.84 (2) (d), this exemption 
shall not apply to land conveyed after August 17, 1961, to any such governmental 
unit or for its benefit while the grantor or others for his or her benefit are permitted 
to occupy the land or part thereof in consideration for the conveyance.  The 
exemption under this subsection applies to the property of a regional planning 
commission that the commission owned prior to October 1, 2021.  If a regional 
planning commission subsequently sells property exempt from taxation under this 
subsection, the exemption applies to property purchased and owned by the 
commission if the total size of all property owned by the commission is substantially 
similar in size to the total property owned by the commission prior to October 1, 
2021.  Any property of the regional planning commission in excess of that size 
restriction is subject to taxation under this chapter.  Leasing the property exempt 
under this subsection, regardless of the lessee and the use of the leasehold income, 
does not render that property taxable.
SECTION  1208 .  70.11 (48) of the statutes is created to read:
70.11 (48)  R ADIO , CELLULAR , AND TELECOMMUNICATION  TOWERS .  Radio, 
cellular, and telecommunication towers used exclusively to support equipment that 
provides telecommunications services, as defined in s. 76.80 (3), or that is used as 
digital broadcasting equipment that is exempt under s. 70.111 (25).
SECTION  1209 .  70.47 (8) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
70.47 (8)  HEARING .  (intro.)  The board shall hear upon oath all persons who 
appear before it in relation to the assessment.  Instead of appearing in person at the 
hearing, the board may allow the property owner, or the property owner [s 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 855 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1209
representative, at the request of either person, to appear before the board, under 
oath, by telephone or to submit written statements, under oath, to the board.  The 
board shall hear upon oath, by telephone, all ill or disabled persons who present to 
the board a letter from a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber certified under s. 441.16 (2) licensed under ch. 441 that 
confirms their illness or disability.  At the request of the property owner or the 
property owner [s representative, the board may postpone and reschedule a hearing 
under this subsection, but may not postpone and reschedule a hearing more than 
once during the same session for the same property.  The board at such hearing 
shall proceed as follows:
SECTION  1210 .  70.58 (3) of the statutes is renumbered 70.58 (3) (a) and 
amended to read:
70.58 (3) (a)  In Beginning with fiscal year 2017-18, and in each ending with 
fiscal year thereafter 2024-25, an amount equal to 0.1697 mills for each dollar of the 
assessed valuation of the property of the state as determined by the department of 
revenue under s. 70.57 shall be transferred from the general fund to the 
conservation fund for the purposes described under sub. (1).
SECTION  1211 .  70.58 (3) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
70.58 (3) (b)  In fiscal year 2025-26, and in each fiscal year thereafter, an 
amount equal to 0.1406 mills for each dollar of the assessed valuation of the 
property of the state as determined by the department of revenue under s. 70.57 
shall be transferred from the general fund to the conservation fund for the purposes 
described under sub. (1).
SECTION  1212 .  70.995 (14) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 856 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1212
70.995 (14) (b)  If the department of revenue does not receive the fee imposed 
on a municipality imposes a fee under par. (a) by March 31 of each year on a 
municipality, the department shall reduce the a distribution made to the 
municipality under s. 79.02 (1) in the following year by the amount of the fee.  Any 
amount that is not able to be deducted from a distribution under s. 79.02 (1) shall be 
directly imposed upon the municipality.
SECTION  1213 .  71.03 (2) (d) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.03 (2) (d) (title)  Husband and wife Spouses joint filing.
SECTION  1214 .  71.03 (2) (d) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.03 (2) (d) 1.  Except as provided in subds. 2. and 3. and par. (e),  a husband 
and a wife spouses may file a joint return for income tax purposes even though one 
of the spouses has no gross income or no deductions.
SECTION  1215 .  71.03 (2) (d) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.03 (2) (d) 2.  No joint return may be filed if either the husband or wife 
spouse at any time during the taxable year is a nonresident alien, unless an election 
is in effect for the taxable year under section 6013 (g) or (h) of the internal revenue 
code Internal Revenue Code.
SECTION  1216 .  71.03 (2) (d) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.03 (2) (d) 3.  No joint return may be filed if the husband and wife spouses 
have different taxable years, except that if their taxable years begin on the same 
day and end on different days because of the death of either or both the joint return 
may be filed with respect to the taxable year of each unless the surviving spouse 
remarries before the close of his or her taxable year or unless the taxable year of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 857 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1216
either spouse is a fractional part of a year under section 443 (a) (1) of the internal 
revenue code Internal Revenue Code.
SECTION  1217 .  71.03 (2) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.03 (2) (g)  Joint return following separate return.   Except as provided in par. 
(i), if an individual has filed a separate return for a taxable year for which a joint 
return could have been filed by the individual and the individual [s spouse under 
par. (d) or (e) and the time prescribed by law for timely filing the return for that 
taxable year has expired, the individual and the individual [s spouse may file a joint 
return for that taxable year.  A joint return filed by the husband and wife spouses 
under this paragraph is their return for that taxable year, and all payments, 
credits, refunds or other repayments made or allowed with respect to the separate 
return of each spouse for that taxable year shall be taken into account in 
determining the extent to which the tax based upon the joint return has been paid.  
If a joint return is filed under this paragraph, any election, other than the election 
to file a separate return, made by either spouse in that spouse [s separate return for 
that taxable year with respect to the treatment of any income, deduction or credit of 
that spouse may not be changed in the filing of the joint return if that election would 
have been irrevocable if the joint return had not been filed.
SECTION  1218 .  71.03 (2) (m) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.03 (2) (m) 2.  If  a husband and wife spouses change from a joint return to 
separate returns within the time prescribed in subd. 1., the tax paid on the joint 
return shall be allocated between them in proportion to the tax liability shown on 
each separate return.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 858 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1219
SECTION  1219 .  71.03 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.03 (4) (a)  Natural persons whose total income is not in excess of $10,000 
and consists entirely of wages subject to withholding for Wisconsin tax purposes 
and not more than $200 total of dividends, interest and other wages not subject to 
Wisconsin withholding, and who have elected the Wisconsin standard deduction 
and have not claimed either the credit for homestead property tax relief property 
tax and rent rebate under subch. VIII or deductions for expenses incurred in 
earning such income, shall, at their election, not be required to record on their 
income tax returns the amount of the tax imposed on their Wisconsin taxable 
income.  Married persons shall be permitted this election only if the joint income of 
the husband and wife spouses does not exceed $10,000, if both report their incomes 
on the same joint income tax return form, and if both make this election.
SECTION  1220 .  71.03 (9) of the statutes is created to read:
71.03 (9)  MEDICAL  ASSISTANCE  COVERAGE .  (a)  The department shall include 
the following questions and explanatory information on each individual income tax 
return under this section and a method for the taxpayer to respond to each question:
1.  XAre you, your spouse, your dependent children, or any eligible adult child 
dependent not covered under a health insurance policy, health plan, or other health 
care coverage?  ZEligible adult child dependent [ means a child who is under the age 
of 26 who is a full-time student or a child who is under the age of 27 who is called to 
active duty in the national guard or armed forces reserve while enrolled as a full-
time student. Y
2.  XIf you responded Zyes[ to question 1, do you want to have evaluated your 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 859 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1220
eligibility for Medical Assistance under subch. IV of ch. 49 of the Wisconsin 
Statutes or your eligibility for subsidized health insurance coverage? Y
(b)  For each person who responded XyesY to the question under par. (a) 2., the 
department shall provide that person [s contact information and other relevant 
information from that person [s individual income tax return to the department of 
health services to perform an evaluation of that person [s eligibility under the 
Medical Assistance program under subch. IV of ch. 49 or an evaluation of that 
person[s eligibility for subsidized health insurance coverage through an exchange, 
as defined under 45 CFR 155.20.  The information provided to the department of 
health services may not be used to determine that the individual is ineligible to 
enroll in the Medical Assistance program under subch. IV of ch. 49.
SECTION  1221 .  71.05 (1) (j) of the statutes is created to read:
71.05 (1) (j)  Tips.   Amounts received as cash tips by an employee from the 
customers of the employee [s employer.
SECTION  1222 .  71.05 (6) (a) 15. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (a) 15.  The amount of the credits computed under s. 71.07 (2dm), 
(2dx), (2dy), (3g), (3h), (3n), (3q), (3s), (3t), (3w), (3wm), (3y), (4k), (4n), (5f), (5h), 
(5i), (5j), (5k), (5r), (5rm), (6n), (8m), and (10) and not passed through by a 
partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option corporation that has added 
that amount to the partnership [s, company [s, or tax-option corporation [s income 
under s. 71.21 (4) or 71.34 (1k) (g).
SECTION  1223 .  71.05 (6) (a) 30. of the statutes is created to read:
71.05 (6) (a) 30.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, any 
amount distributed during the taxable year from a catastrophe savings account, as 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 860 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1223
described in s. 224.28, that was not used to pay an expense described in s. 224.28 
(3), except that this subdivision applies only to amounts for which a subtraction was 
made under par. (b) 57. or 58.
SECTION  1224 .  71.05 (6) (b) 4. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 4. (intro.)  Disability For taxable years beginning before January 
1, 2025, disability payments other than disability payments that are paid from a 
retirement plan, the payments from which are exempt under subd. 54. and sub. (1) 
(am) and (an), if the individual either is single or is married and files a joint return 
and is under 65 years of age before the close of the taxable year to which the 
subtraction relates, retired on disability, and, when the individual retired, was 
permanently and totally disabled.  In this subdivision, Xpermanently and totally 
disabled Y means an individual who is unable to engage in any substantial gainful 
activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment 
that can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last 
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.  An individual shall not be 
considered permanently and totally disabled for purposes of this subdivision unless 
proof is furnished in such form and manner, and at such times, as prescribed by the 
department.  The exclusion under this subdivision shall be determined as follows:
SECTION  1225 .  71.05 (6) (b) 4m. of the statutes is created to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 4m.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, 
disability payments other than disability payments that are paid from a retirement 
plan, the payments from which are exempt under subd. 54. and sub. (1) (am) and 
(an), if the individual is under 65 years of age before the close of the taxable year to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 861 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1225
which the subtraction relates, retired on disability, and, when the individual 
retired, was permanently and totally disabled.  In this subdivision, Xpermanently 
and totally disabled Y means an individual who is unable to engage in any 
substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or 
mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or 
can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.  An 
individual shall not be considered permanently and totally disabled for purposes of 
this subdivision unless proof is furnished in such form and manner, and at such 
times, as prescribed by the department.  The exclusion under this subdivision shall 
be determined as follows:
a.  If the individual is single or files as a head of household and the 
individual [s federal adjusted gross income in the year to which the subtraction 
relates is less than $30,000, the maximum subtraction is $5,500 or the amount of 
disability pay reported as income, whichever is less.
b.  If the individual is married and is a joint filer and the couple [s federal 
adjusted gross income in the year to which the subtraction relates is less than 
$60,000, the maximum subtraction is $5,500 per spouse that is disabled or the 
amount of disability pay reported as income, whichever is less.
c.  If the individual is married and files a separate return and the sum of both 
spouses[ federal adjusted gross income in the year to which the subtraction relates 
is less than $60,000, the maximum subtraction is $5,500 or the amount of disability 
pay reported as income, whichever is less.
SECTION  1226 .  71.05 (6) (b) 19. cm. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 862 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1226
71.05 (6) (b) 19. cm.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020, for 
a person who is a nonresident or a part-year resident of this state, modify the 
amount calculated under subd. 19. b. by multiplying the amount by a fraction the 
numerator of which is the person [s wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net 
earnings from a trade or business that are taxable by this state and the 
denominator of which is the person [s total wages, salary, tips, unearned income, 
and net earnings from a trade or business.  In this subd. 19. cm., for married 
persons filing separately Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 
from a trade or business Y means the separate wages, salary, tips, unearned income, 
and net earnings from a trade or business of each spouse, and for married persons 
filing jointly Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings from a trade 
or business Y means the total wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 
from a trade or business of both spouses.
SECTION  1227 .  71.05 (6) (b) 19. dm. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 19. dm.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020, 
reduce the amount calculated under subd. 19. b. or cm. to the person [s aggregate 
wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings from a trade or business 
that are taxable by this state.
SECTION  1228 .  71.05 (6) (b) 22. of the statutes is renumbered 71.05 (6) (b) 22. 
a. and amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 22. a.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1995, and 
before January 1, 2025, an amount up to $5,000 that is expended during the period 
that consists of the year to which the claim relates and the prior 2 taxable years, by 
a full-year resident of this state who is an adoptive parent, for adoption fees, court 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 863 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1228
costs, or legal fees relating to the adoption of a child, for whom a final order of 
adoption has been entered under s. 48.91 (3) or by an order of a court of any other 
state, or upon registration of a foreign adoption under s. 48.97 (2), during the 
taxable year.
SECTION  1229 .  71.05 (6) (b) 22. b. of the statutes is created to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 22. b.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, an 
amount up to $15,000 that is expended during the period that consists of the year to 
which the claim relates and the prior 2 taxable years, by a full-year resident of this 
state who is an adoptive parent, for adoption fees, court costs, or legal fees relating 
to the adoption of a child, for whom a final order of adoption has been entered under 
s. 48.91 (3) or by an order of a court of any other state, or upon registration of a 
foreign adoption under s. 48.97 (2), during the taxable year.
SECTION  1230 .  71.05 (6) (b) 28. e. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 28. e.  For an individual who is a nonresident or part-year 
resident of this state, multiply the amount calculated under subd. 28. a., am., b., c. 
or d. by a fraction the numerator of which is the individual [s wages, salary, tips, 
unearned income and net earnings from a trade or business that are taxable by this 
state and the denominator of which is the individual [s total wages, salary, tips, 
unearned income and net earnings from a trade or business.  In this subd. 28. e., for 
married persons filing separately Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income and net 
earnings from a trade or business Y means the separate wages, salary, tips, 
unearned income and net earnings from a trade or business of each spouse, and for 
married persons filing jointly Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income and net 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 864 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1230
earnings from a trade or business Y means the total wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income and net earnings from a trade or business of both spouses.
SECTION  1231 .  71.05 (6) (b) 28. f. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 28. f.  Reduce the amount calculated under subd. 28. a., am., b., c., 
d. or e. to the individual [s aggregate wages, salary, tips, unearned income and net 
earnings from a trade or business that are taxable by this state.
SECTION  1232 .  71.05 (6) (b) 32. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 32. b.  For an individual who is a nonresident or part-year 
resident of this state, multiply the amount calculated under subd. 32. a. by a 
fraction the numerator of which is the individual [s wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income and net earnings from a trade or business that are taxable by this state and 
the denominator of which is the individual [s total wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income and net earnings from a trade or business.  In this subd. 32. b., for married 
persons filing separately Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income and net earnings 
from a trade or business Y means the separate wages, salary, tips, unearned income 
and net earnings from a trade or business of each spouse, and for married persons 
filing jointly Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income and net earnings from a trade or 
business Y means the total wages, salary, tips, unearned income and net earnings 
from a trade or business of both spouses.
SECTION  1233 .  71.05 (6) (b) 32. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 32. c.  Reduce the amount calculated under subd. 32. a. or b. to the 
individual [s aggregate wages, salary, tips, unearned income and net earnings from 
a trade or business that are taxable by this state.
SECTION  1234 .  71.05 (6) (b) 33. b. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 865 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1234
71.05 (6) (b) 33. b.  For an individual who is a nonresident or part-year 
resident of this state, multiply the amount calculated under subd. 33. a. by a 
fraction the numerator of which is the individual [s wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income and net earnings from a trade or business that are taxable by this state and 
the denominator of which is the individual [s total wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income and net earnings from a trade or business.  In this subd. 33. b., for married 
persons filing separately Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income and net earnings 
from a trade or business Y means the separate wages, salary, tips, unearned income 
and net earnings from a trade or business of each spouse, and for married persons 
filing jointly Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income and net earnings from a trade or 
business Y means the total wages, salary, tips, unearned income and net earnings 
from a trade or business of both spouses.
SECTION  1235 .  71.05 (6) (b) 33. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 33. c.  Reduce the amount calculated under subd. 33. a. or b. to the 
individual [s aggregate wages, salary, tips, unearned income and net earnings from 
a trade or business that are taxable by this state.
SECTION  1236 .  71.05 (6) (b) 35. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 35. c.  For an individual who is a nonresident or part-year 
resident of this state, multiply the amount calculated under subd. 35. a. or b., by a 
fraction the numerator of which is the individual [s wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income, and net earnings from a trade or business that are taxable by this state and 
the denominator of which is the individual [s total wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income, and net earnings from a trade or business.  In this subd. 35. c., for married 
persons filing separately Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 866 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1236
from a trade or business Y means the separate wages, salary, tips, unearned income, 
and net earnings from a trade or business of each spouse, and for married persons 
filing jointly Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings from a trade 
or business Y means the total wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 
from a trade or business of both spouses.
SECTION  1237 .  71.05 (6) (b) 35. d. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 35. d.  Reduce the amount calculated under subd. 35. a., b., or c. to 
the individual [s aggregate wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 
from a trade or business that are taxable by this state.
SECTION  1238 .  71.05 (6) (b) 38. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 38. c.  For an individual who is a nonresident or part-year 
resident of this state, multiply the amount calculated under subd. 38. a. or b., by a 
fraction the numerator of which is the individual [s wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income, and net earnings from a trade or business that are taxable by this state and 
the denominator of which is the individual [s total wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income, and net earnings from a trade or business.  In this subd. 38. c., for married 
persons filing separately Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 
from a trade or business Y means the separate wages, salary, tips, unearned income, 
and net earnings from a trade or business of each spouse, and for married persons 
filing jointly Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings from a trade 
or business Y means the total wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 
from a trade or business of both spouses.
SECTION  1239 .  71.05 (6) (b) 38. d. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 38. d.  Reduce the amount calculated under subd. 38. a., b., or c. to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 867 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1239
the individual [s aggregate wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 
from a trade or business that are taxable by this state.
SECTION  1240 .  71.05 (6) (b) 42. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 42. c.  For an individual who is a nonresident or part-year 
resident of this state, multiply the amount calculated under subd. 42. a. or b., by a 
fraction the numerator of which is the individual [s wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income, and net earnings from a trade or business that are taxable by this state and 
the denominator of which is the individual [s total wages, salary, tips, unearned 
income, and net earnings from a trade or business.  In this subd. 42. c., for married 
persons filing separately Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 
from a trade or business Y means the separate wages, salary, tips, unearned income, 
and net earnings from a trade or business of each spouse, and for married persons 
filing jointly Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings from a trade 
or business Y means the total wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 
from a trade or business of both spouses.
SECTION  1241 .  71.05 (6) (b) 42. d. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 42. d.  Reduce the amount calculated under subd. 42. a., b., or c. to 
the individual [s aggregate wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 
from a trade or business that are taxable by this state.
SECTION  1242 .  71.05 (6) (b) 43. f. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 43. f.  An individual who is a nonresident or part-year resident of 
this state and who claims the subtraction under this subdivision shall multiply the 
amount calculated under subd. 43. a., b., c., or d. by a fraction the numerator of 
which is the individual [s wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 868 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1242
from a trade or business that are taxable by this state and the denominator of which 
is the individual [s total wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings from 
a trade or business.  In this subd. 43. f., for married persons filing separately 
Xwages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings from a trade or business Y 
means the separate wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings from a 
trade or business of each spouse, and for married persons filing jointly Xwages, 
salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings from a trade or business Y means 
the total wages, salary, tips, unearned income, and net earnings from a trade or 
business of both spouses.
SECTION  1243 .  71.05 (6) (b) 49. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 49. a.  Subject to the definitions provided in subd. 49. b. to g. and 
the limitations specified in subd. 49. h. to j. for taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2013, and subject to the limitation in subd. 49. k. for taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2017, and subject to the limitation in subd. 49. m. for 
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, tuition expenses that are paid by 
a claimant for tuition for a pupil to attend an eligible institution.
SECTION  1244 .  71.05 (6) (b) 49. m. of the statutes is created to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 49. m.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, no 
modification may be made under this subdivision unless the adjusted gross income 
of the claimant is less than $100,000 if the claimant is filing as single or head of 
household, $150,000 if the claimant is married and filing jointly, or $75,000 if the 
claimant is married and filing separately.
SECTION  1245 .  71.05 (6) (b) 57. of the statutes is created to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 57.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, any 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 869 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1245
increase in the value of a catastrophe savings account, as described in s. 224.28, 
other than from a deposit into the account, except that the subtraction under this 
subdivision may not be claimed by an account owner who has made a withdrawal 
from the account that was not used to pay an expense described in s. 224.28 (3).
SECTION  1246 .  71.05 (6) (b) 58. of the statutes is created to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 58.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, an 
amount equal to any deposit made during the taxable year to a catastrophe savings 
account, as described in s. 224.28, by the account owner.  The subtraction made 
under this subdivision may not exceed an amount equal to the amount specified for 
the account owner under s. 224.28 (4).
SECTION  1247 .  71.05 (6) (b) 59. of the statutes is created to read:
71.05 (6) (b) 59.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2026, to the 
extent not otherwise excluded from Wisconsin taxable income if not for this 
subdivision, the amount of membership dues and expenses paid by the claimant 
during the taxable year to a labor organization, as defined in s. 5.02 (8m).
SECTION  1248 .  71.05 (22) (a) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (22) (a) (title)  Election of deductions; husband and wife spousal 
deductions.
SECTION  1249 .  71.05 (22) (f) 1m. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (22) (f) 1m.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1997, in the 
case of a taxpayer with respect to whom an exemption under sub. (23) (b) 2. or (be) 
2. is allowable to another person, the Wisconsin standard deduction shall be the 
lesser of the amount under subd. 2m. or one of the amounts calculated under subd. 
3m., whichever amount under subd. 3m. is greater.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 870 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1250
SECTION  1250 .  71.05 (23) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (23) (b) (intro.)  For taxable years that begin after December 31, 2000, 
and before January 1, 2025:
SECTION  1251 .  71.05 (23) (be) of the statutes is created to read:
71.05 (23) (be)  For taxable years that begin after December 31, 2024:
1.  A personal exemption of $1,200 if the taxpayer is required to file a return 
under s. 71.03 (2) (a) 1. or 2. and $1,200 for the taxpayer [s spouse, except if the 
spouse is filing separately or as a head of household.
2.  An exemption of $1,200 for each dependent, as defined under section 152 of 
the Internal Revenue Code, of the taxpayer.
3.  An additional exemption of $250 if the taxpayer has reached the age of 65 
before the close of the taxable year to which his or her tax return relates and $250 
for the taxpayer [s spouse if he or she has reached the age of 65 before the close of the 
taxable year to which his or her tax return relates, except if the spouse is filing 
separately or as a head of household.
SECTION  1252 .  71.05 (23) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.05 (23) (c)  With respect to persons who change their domicile into or from 
this state during the taxable year and nonresident persons, personal exemptions 
under pars. (a) and, (b), and (be) shall be limited to the fraction of the amount so 
determined that Wisconsin adjusted gross income is of federal adjusted gross 
income.  In this paragraph, for married persons filing separately Xadjusted gross 
incomeY means the separate adjusted gross income of each spouse and for married 
persons filing jointly Xadjusted gross income Y means the total adjusted gross 
income of both spouses.  If a person and that person [s spouse are not both domiciled 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 871 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1252
in this state during the entire taxable year, their personal exemptions on a joint 
return are determined by multiplying the personal exemption that would be 
available to each of them if they were both domiciled in this state during the entire 
taxable year by a fraction the numerator of which is their joint Wisconsin adjusted 
gross income and the denominator of which is their joint federal adjusted gross 
income.
SECTION  1253 .  71.06 (1q) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.06 (1q)  FIDUCIARIES , SINGLE  INDIVIDUALS , AND HEADS  OF HOUSEHOLDS ; 
AFTER  2012 2013 TO 2024.  (intro.)  The tax to be assessed, levied, and collected 
upon the taxable incomes of all fiduciaries, except fiduciaries of nuclear 
decommissioning trust or reserve funds, and single individuals and heads of 
households shall be computed at the following rates for taxable years beginning 
after December 31, 2012, and before January 1, 2025:
SECTION  1254 .  71.06 (1r) of the statutes is created to read:
71.06 (1r)  FIDUCIARIES , SINGLE  INDIVIDUALS , AND HEADS  OF HOUSEHOLDS ; 
AFTER  2024.  The tax to be assessed, levied, and collected upon the taxable incomes 
of all fiduciaries, except fiduciaries of nuclear decommissioning trust or reserve 
funds, and single individuals and heads of households shall be computed at the 
following rates for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024:
(a)  On all taxable income from $0 to $7,500, 3.5 percent.
(b)  On all taxable income exceeding $7,500 but not exceeding $15,000, 4.40 
percent.
(c)  On all taxable income exceeding $15,000 but not exceeding $225,000, 5.3 
percent.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 872 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1254
(d)  On all taxable income exceeding $225,000 but not exceeding $1,000,000, 
7.65 percent.
(e)  On all taxable income exceeding $1,000,000, 9.80 percent.
SECTION  1255 .  71.06 (2) (i) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.06 (2) (i) (intro.)  For joint returns, for taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2012, and before January 1, 2025:
SECTION  1256 .  71.06 (2) (j) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.06 (2) (j) (intro.)  For married persons filing separately, for taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2012, and before January 1, 2025:
SECTION  1257 .  71.06 (2) (k) of the statutes is created to read:
71.06 (2) (k)  For joint returns, for taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2024:
1.  On all taxable income from $0 to $10,000, 3.5 percent.
2.  On all taxable income exceeding $10,000 but not exceeding $20,000, 4.40 
percent.
3.  On all taxable income exceeding $20,000 but not exceeding $300,000, 5.3 
percent.
4.  On all taxable income exceeding $300,000 but not exceeding $1,000,000, 
7.65 percent.
5.  On all taxable income exceeding $1,000,000, 9.80 percent.
SECTION  1258 .  71.06 (2) (L) of the statutes is created to read:
71.06 (2) (L)  For married persons filing separately, for taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2024:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 873 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1258
1.  On all taxable income from $0 to $5,000, 3.5 percent.
2.  On all taxable income exceeding $5,000 but not exceeding $10,000, 4.40 
percent.
3.  On all taxable income exceeding $10,000 but not exceeding $150,000, 5.3 
percent.
4.  On all taxable income exceeding $150,000 but not exceeding $500,000, 7.65 
percent.
5.  On all taxable income exceeding $500,000, 9.80 percent.
SECTION  1259 .  71.06 (2e) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.06 (2e) (a)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1998, and 
before January 1, 2000, the maximum dollar amount in each tax bracket, and the 
corresponding minimum dollar amount in the next bracket, under subs. (1m) and 
(2) (c) and (d), and for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1999, and before 
January 1, 2025, the maximum dollar amount in each tax bracket, and the 
corresponding minimum dollar amount in the next bracket, under subs. (1n), (1p) 
(a) to (c), (1q) (a) and (b), and (2) (e), (f), (g) 1. to 3., (h) 1. to 3., (i) 1. and 2., and (j) 1. 
and 2., shall be increased each year by a percentage equal to the percentage change 
between the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, 
for the month of August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price index for 
all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August 1997, as 
determined by the federal department of labor, except that for taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2000, and before January 1, 2002, the dollar amount 
in the top bracket under subs. (1p) (c) and (d), (2) (g) 3. and 4. and (h) 3. and 4. shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 874 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1259
be increased by a percentage equal to the percentage change between the U.S. 
consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of 
August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price index for all urban 
consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August 1999, as determined by the 
federal department of labor, except that for taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2011, the adjustment may occur only if the resulting amount is greater than the 
corresponding amount that was calculated for the previous year.
SECTION  1260 .  71.06 (2e) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.06 (2e) (b)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2009, and 
before January 1, 2025, the maximum dollar amount in each tax bracket, and the 
corresponding minimum dollar amount in the next bracket, under subs. (1p) (d), 
(1q) (c), and (2) (g) 4., (h) 4., (i) 3., and (j) 3., and the dollar amount in the top bracket 
under subs. (1p) (e), (1q) (d), and (2) (g) 5., (h) 5., (i) 4., and (j) 4., shall be increased 
each year by a percentage equal to the percentage change between the U.S. 
consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of 
August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price index for all urban 
consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August 2008, as determined by the 
federal department of labor, except that for taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2011, the adjustment may occur only if the resulting amount is greater than the 
corresponding amount that was calculated for the previous year.
SECTION  1261 .  71.06 (2e) (bg) of the statutes is created to read:
71.06 (2e) (bg) 1.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, the 
maximum dollar amount in each tax bracket under subs. (1r) (a) and (b) and (2) (k) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 875 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1261
1. and 2. and (L) 1. and 2., and the corresponding minimum dollar amount in the 
next tax bracket under subs. (1r) (b) and (c) and (2) (k) 2. and 3. and (L) 2. and 3. 
shall be increased each year by a percentage equal to the percentage change 
between the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, 
for the month of August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price index for 
all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August 1997, as 
determined by the federal department of labor, except that for taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2024, the adjustment may occur only if the resulting 
amount is greater than the corresponding amount that was calculated for the 
previous year.
2.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, the maximum dollar 
amount in each tax bracket under subs. (1r) (c) and (2) (k) 3. and (L) 3., and the 
corresponding minimum dollar amount in the next tax bracket under subs. (1r) (d) 
and (2) (k) 4. and (L) 4. shall be increased each year by a percentage equal to the 
percentage change between the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, 
U.S. city average, for the month of August of the previous year and the U.S. 
consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of 
August 2008, as determined by the federal department of labor, except that the 
adjustment may occur only if the resulting amount is greater than the 
corresponding amount that was calculated for the previous year.
3.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025, the maximum dollar 
amount in the tax bracket under subs. (1r) (d) and (2) (k) 4. and (L) 4. and the 
corresponding dollar amount in the top bracket under subs. (1r) (e) and (2) (k) 5. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 876 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1261
and (L) 5. shall be increased each year by a percentage equal to the percentage 
change between the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city 
average, for the month of August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price 
index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August 2024, as 
determined by the federal department of labor, except that the adjustment may 
occur only if the resulting amount is greater than the corresponding amount that 
was calculated for the previous year.
SECTION  1262 .  71.06 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.06 (2m)   RATE CHANGES .  If a rate under sub. (1), (1m), (1n), (1p), (1q), (1r), 
or (2) changes during a taxable year, the taxpayer shall compute the tax for that 
taxable year by the methods applicable to the federal income tax under section 15 of 
the Internal Revenue Code.
SECTION  1263 .  71.06 (2s) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.06 (2s) (d)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, with 
respect to nonresident individuals, including individuals changing their domicile 
into or from this state, the tax brackets under subs. (1p), (1q), (1r), and (2) (g), (h), 
(i), and (j), (k), and (L) shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
Wisconsin adjusted gross income and the denominator of which is federal adjusted 
gross income.  In this paragraph, for married persons filing separately Xadjusted 
gross income Y means the separate adjusted gross income of each spouse, and for 
married persons filing jointly Xadjusted gross income Y means the total adjusted 
gross income of both spouses.  If an individual and that individual [s spouse are not 
both domiciled in this state during the entire taxable year, the tax brackets under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 877 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1263
subs. (1p), (1q), (1r), and (2) (g), (h), (i), and (j), (k), and (L) on a joint return shall be 
multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is their joint Wisconsin adjusted 
gross income and the denominator of which is their joint federal adjusted gross 
income.
SECTION  1264 .  71.07 (3w) (a) 2m. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (3w)  (a) 2m.  XContract Y means the contract between the claimant and 
the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation under s. 238.399.
SECTION  1265 .  71.07 (3w) (a) 6. of the statutes is renumbered 71.07 (3w) (a) 6. 
a. and amended to read:
71.07 (3w)  (a) 6. a.  XZone payroll Y means the amount of state payroll that is 
attributable to wages paid to full-time employees based in an enterprise zone.  
XZone Except as provided in subd. 6. b., Xzone payroll Y does not include the amount 
of wages paid to any full-time employees that exceeds $100,000.
SECTION  1266 .  71.07 (3w) (a) 6. b. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (3w)  (a) 6. b.  For a claimant whose contract is executed after December 
31, 2025, Xzone payroll Y does not include the amount of wages paid to any full-time 
employees that exceeds $151,300.
SECTION  1267 .  71.07 (3w) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (3w)  (b)  Filing claims under pre-2026 contracts; payroll.   (intro.)  
Subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 238.399 or s. 560.799, 
2009 stats., a claimant whose contract is executed prior to January 1, 2026, may 
claim as a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.02 or 71.08 an amount 
calculated as follows:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 878 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1268
SECTION  1268 .  71.07 (3w) (bd) of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (3w) (bd)  Filing claims under post-2025 contracts; payroll.   Subject to 
the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 238.399, a claimant whose 
contract is executed after December 31, 2025, may claim as a credit against the tax 
imposed under s. 71.02 an amount calculated as follows:
1.  Determine the amount that is the lesser of:
a.  The number of full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than 
$34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the 
taxable year, minus the number of full-time employees whose annual wages were 
greater than $34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a 
tier II county or municipality and who the claimant employed in the area that 
comprises the enterprise zone in the base year.
b.  The number of full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than 
$34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality and who the claimant employed in the state in the taxable year, 
minus the number of full-time employees whose annual wages were greater than 
$34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality and who the claimant employed in the state in the base year.
2.  Determine the claimant [s average zone payroll by dividing the total wages 
for full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than $34,220 in a tier I 
county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county or municipality 
and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the taxable year by the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 879 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1268
number of full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than $34,220 in a 
tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county or 
municipality and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the taxable 
year.
3.  For employees in a tier I county or municipality, subtract $34,220 from the 
amount determined under subd. 2. and for employees in a tier II county or 
municipality, subtract $45,390 from the amount determined under subd. 2.
4.  Multiply the amount determined under subd. 3. by the amount determined 
under subd. 1.
5.  Multiply the amount determined under subd. 4. by the percentage 
determined under s. 238.399, not to exceed 7 percent.
SECTION  1269 .  71.07 (3w) (bm) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (3w)  (bm) 1.  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and (bd) and 
subds. 2., 3., and 4., and subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., a claimant may claim as a credit against the tax 
imposed under s. 71.02 or 71.08 an amount equal to a percentage, as determined 
under s. 238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., not to exceed 100 percent, of the amount 
the claimant paid in the taxable year to upgrade or improve the job-related skills of 
any of the claimant [s full-time employees,  to train any of the claimant [s full-time 
employees on the use of job-related new technologies, or to provide job-related 
training to any full-time employee whose employment with the claimant represents 
the employee [s first full-time job.  This subdivision does not apply to employees who 
do not work in an enterprise zone.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 880 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1270
SECTION  1270 .  71.07 (3w) (bm) 2. of the statutes is renumbered 71.07 (3w) 
(bm) 2. (intro.) and amended to read:
71.07 (3w)  (bm) 2. (intro.)  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and 
(bd) and subds. 1., 3., and 4., and subject to the limitations provided in this 
subsection and s. 238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., a claimant may claim as a 
credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.02 or 71.08 one of the following amounts:
a.  For a claimant whose contract is executed prior to January 1, 2026, an 
amount equal to the percentage, as determined under s. 238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 
stats., not to exceed 7 percent, of the claimant [s zone payroll paid in the taxable year 
to all of the claimant [s full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than 
the amount determined by multiplying 2,080 by 150 percent of the federal 
minimum wage in a tier I county or municipality, not including the wages paid to 
the employees determined under par. (b) 1., or greater than $30,000 in a tier II 
county or municipality, not including the wages paid to the employees determined 
under par. (b) 1., and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the 
taxable year, if the total number of such employees is equal to or greater than the 
total number of such employees in the base year.  A claimant may claim a credit 
under this subdivision for no more than 5 consecutive taxable years.
SECTION  1271 .  71.07 (3w) (bm) 2. b. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (3w)  (bm) 2. b.  For a claimant whose contract is executed after 
December 31, 2025, an amount equal to the percentage, as determined under s. 
238.399, not to exceed 7 percent, of the claimant [s zone payroll paid in the taxable 
year to all of the claimant [s full-time employees whose annual wages are greater 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 881 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1271
than $34,220 in a tier I county or municipality, not including the wages paid to the 
employees determined under par. (bd) 1., or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality, not including the wages paid to the employees determined under 
par. (bd) 1., and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the taxable 
year, if the total number of such employees is equal to or greater than the total 
number of such employees in the base year.
SECTION  1272 .  71.07 (3w) (bm) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (3w)  (bm) 3.  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and (bd) and 
subds. 1., 2., and 4., and subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., for taxable years beginning after December 31, 
2008, a claimant may claim as a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.02 or 
71.08 up to 10 percent of the claimant [s significant capital expenditures, as 
determined under s. 238.399 (5m) or s. 560.799 (5m), 2009 stats.
SECTION  1273 .  71.07 (3w) (bm) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (3w)  (bm) 4.  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and (bd) and 
subds. 1., 2., and 3., and subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., for taxable years beginning after December 31, 
2009, a claimant may claim as a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.02 or 
71.08, up to 1 percent of the amount that the claimant paid in the taxable year to 
purchase tangible personal property, items, property, or goods under s. 77.52 (1) (b), 
(c), or (d), or services from Wisconsin vendors, as determined under s. 238.399 (5) 
(e) or s. 560.799 (5) (e), 2009 stats., except that the claimant may not claim the 
credit under this subdivision and subd. 3. for the same expenditures.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 882 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1274
SECTION  1274 .  71.07 (3w) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (3w)  (cm)  Inflation adjustments.  For taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2026, the dollar amounts in pars. (a) 6. b., (bd) 1. a. and b., 2., and 3., 
and (bm) 2. b. shall be increased each year by a percentage equal to the percentage 
change between the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city 
average, for the month of August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price 
index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August of the year 
before the previous year, as determined by the federal department of labor.  Each 
amount that is revised under this paragraph shall be rounded to the nearest 
multiple of $10 if the revised amount is not a multiple of $10 or, if the revised 
amount is a multiple of $5, such an amount shall be increased to the next higher 
multiple of $10.
SECTION  1275 .  71.07 (3y) (b) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (3y) (b) 6.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, and 
before January 1, 2025, the amount of the investment in workforce housing, as 
defined in s. 234.66 (1) (i), for employees, not to exceed 15 percent of such 
investment, and, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, the amount 
of the investment in establishing an employee child care program for employees, not 
to exceed 15 percent of such investment, as determined by the Wisconsin Economic 
Development Corporation.
SECTION  1276 .  71.07 (3y) (b) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (3y) (b) 7.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, the 
amount of the investment in workforce housing, as defined in s. 234.66 (1) (i), for 
employees, including contributions made by the person to a 3rd party responsible 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 883 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1276
for building or rehabilitating workforce housing, including contributions made to a 
local revolving loan fund program, not to exceed 15 percent of such investment.
SECTION  1277 .  71.07 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (4)  H OMESTEAD  CREDIT  PROPERTY  TAX AND RENT  REBATE .  The 
homestead credit property tax and rent rebate under subch. VIII may be claimed by 
individuals against taxes otherwise due.
SECTION  1278 .  71.07 (4k) (b) 4. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (4k) (b) 4. a.  Except as provided in subds. 5. and, 6., and 7., for taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2014, an individual, a partner of a partnership, 
a shareholder of a tax-option corporation, or a member of a limited liability 
company may claim a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.02, as allocated 
under par. (d), an amount equal to 5.75 percent of the amount by which the 
individual [s, partnership [s, tax-option corporation [s, or limited liability company [s 
qualified research expenses for the taxable year exceed 50 percent of the average 
qualified research expenses for the 3 taxable years immediately preceding the 
taxable year for which the claimant claims the credit.  If the individual, 
partnership, tax-option corporation, or limited liability company had no qualified 
research expenses in any of the 3 taxable years immediately preceding the taxable 
year for which the claimant claims the credit, the claimant may claim an amount 
equal to 2.875 percent of the individual [s, partnership [s, tax-option corporation [s, or 
limited liability company [s qualified research expenses for the taxable year for 
which the claimant claims the credit.
SECTION  1279 .  71.07 (4k) (b) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (4k) (b) 7. a.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, an 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 884 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1279
individual, a partner of a partnership, a shareholder of a tax-option corporation, or 
a member of a limited liability company may claim a credit against the tax imposed 
under s. 71.02, as allocated under par. (d), an amount equal to 11.5 percent of the 
amount by which the individual [s, partnership [s, tax-option corporation [s, or 
limited liability company [s qualified research expenses for the taxable year exceed 
50 percent of the average qualified research expenses for the 3 taxable years 
immediately preceding the taxable year for which the claimant claims the credit.  If 
the individual, partnership, tax-option corporation, or limited liability company had 
no qualified research expenses in any of the 3 taxable years immediately preceding 
the taxable year for which the claimant claims the credit, the claimant may claim 
an amount equal to 5.75 percent of the individual [s, partnership [s, tax-option 
corporation [s, or limited liability company [s qualified research expenses for the 
taxable year for which the claimant claims the credit.
b.  For purposes of subd. 7. a., Xqualified research expenses Y means qualified 
research expenses as defined in section 41 of the Internal Revenue Code, except 
that Xqualified research expenses Y includes only expenses incurred by the 
individual, partnership, tax-option corporation, or limited liability company for 
research related to nuclear power, incurred for research conducted in this state, for 
the taxable year and does not include compensation used in computing the credit 
under sub. (2dx).  Section 41 (f) (1), (2), (5), and (6) and (h) of the Internal Revenue 
Code does not apply to the credit under this subdivision.
SECTION  1280 .  71.07 (4k) (e) 2. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (4k) (e) 2. (intro.)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, 
s. 71.28 (4) (b) to (e), (g), and (h), as it applies to the credit under s. 71.28 (4), applies 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 885 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1280
to the credits under this subsection.  For taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2017, if the allowable amount of the claim under par. (b) 4., 5., or 6., or 7. exceeds 
the tax otherwise due under s. 71.02 or 71.08, all of the following apply:
SECTION  1281 .  71.07 (4k) (e) 2. ad. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (4k) (e) 2. ad.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, the 
amount of the claim not used to offset the tax due, not to exceed 25 percent of the 
allowable amount of the claim under par. (b) 4., 5., or 6., or 7., shall be certified by 
the department of revenue to the department of administration for payment by 
check, share draft, or other draft drawn from the appropriation account under s. 
20.835 (2) (d).
SECTION  1282 .  71.07 (5f) of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (5f)  FILM PRODUCTION  SERVICES  CREDIT .  (a)  Definitions .  In this 
subsection:
1.  XAccredited production Y means a film, video, broadcast advertisement, or 
television production, as approved by the department of tourism, for which the 
aggregate salary and wages included in the cost of the production for the period 
ending 12 months after the month in which the principal filming or taping of the 
production begins exceeds $100,000 for a production that is 30 minutes or longer or 
$50,000 for a production that is less than 30 minutes.  XAccredited production Y does 
not include any of the following, regardless of the production costs:
a.  News, current events, or public programming or a program that includes 
weather or market reports.
b.  A talk show.
c.  A production with respect to a questionnaire or contest.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 886 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1282
d.  A sports event or sports activity.
e.  A gala presentation or awards show.
f.  A finished production that solicits funds.
g.  A production for which the production company is required under 18 USC 
2257 to maintain records with respect to a performer portrayed in a single media or 
multimedia program.
h.  A production produced primarily for industrial, corporate, or institutional 
purposes.
2.  XClaimant Y means a film production company, as defined in sub. (5h) (a) 2., 
that operates an accredited production in this state, if the company owns the 
copyright in the accredited production or has contracted directly with the copyright 
owner or a person acting on the owner [s behalf and if the company has a viable plan, 
as determined by the department of tourism, for the commercial distribution of the 
finished production.
3.  XCommercial domicile Y means the location from which a trade or business 
is principally managed and directed, based on any factors the department of 
tourism determines are appropriate, including the location where the greatest 
number of employees of the trade or business work, the trade or business has its 
office or base of operations, or from which the employees are directed or controlled.
4.  XProduction expenditures Y means any expenditure that is incurred in this 
state and directly used to produce an accredited production, including expenditures 
for writing, budgeting, casting, location scouts, set construction and operation, 
wardrobes, makeup, clothing accessories, photography, sound recording, sound 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 887 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1282
synchronization, sound mixing, lighting, editing, film processing, film transferring, 
special effects, visual effects, renting or leasing facilities or equipment, renting or 
leasing motor vehicles, food, lodging, and any other similar pre-production, 
production, and post-production expenditure as determined by the department of 
tourism.  XProduction expenditures Y includes expenditures for music that is 
performed, composed, or recorded by a musician who is a resident of this state or 
published or distributed by an entity that has its commercial domicile in this state; 
air travel that is purchased from a travel agency or company that has its commercial 
domicile in this state; and insurance that is purchased from an insurance agency or 
company that has its commercial domicile in this state.  XProduction expenditures Y 
does not include salary or wages or expenditures for the marketing and distribution 
of an accredited production.
(b)  Filing claims .  Subject to the limitations provided in this subsection, for 
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025, a claimant may claim as a credit 
against the tax imposed under s. 71.02 any of the following amounts:
1.  An amount equal to 25 percent of the salary or wages paid by the claimant 
to the claimant [s employees in the taxable year for services rendered in this state to 
produce an accredited production and paid to employees who were residents of this 
state at the time that they were paid.
2.  An amount equal to 25 percent of the production expenditures paid by the 
claimant in the taxable year to produce an accredited production.
3.  An amount equal to the taxes imposed under ss. 77.52 and 77.53 that the 
claimant paid in the taxable year on the purchase of tangible personal property and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 888 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1282
taxable services that are used directly in producing an accredited production in this 
state, including all stages from the final script stage to the distribution of the 
finished production.
(c)  Limitations .  1.  No amount of the salary or wages paid under par. (b) 1. 
may be the basis for a credit under this subsection unless the salary or wages are 
paid for services rendered after December 31, 2025, and directly incurred to 
produce the accredited production.
2.  The total amount of the credits that may be claimed by a claimant under 
par. (b) 1. shall not exceed an amount equal to the first $250,000 of salary or wages 
paid to each of the claimant [s employees, as described in par. (b) 1., in the taxable 
year, not including the salary or wages paid to the claimant [s 2 highest-paid 
employees, as described in par. (b) 1., in the taxable year, if the claimant [s budgeted 
production expenditures are $1,000,000 or more.
3.  No credit may be allowed under this subsection unless the claimant files an 
application with the department of tourism, at the time and in the manner 
prescribed by the office, and the office approves the application.  The claimant shall 
submit a copy of the approved application with the claimant [s return.
4.  Partnerships, limited liability companies, and tax-option corporations may 
not claim the credit under this subsection, but the eligibility for, and the amount of, 
the credit are based on their payment of amounts under par. (b).  A partnership, 
limited liability company, or tax-option corporation shall compute the amount of 
credit that each of its partners, members, or shareholders may claim and shall 
provide that information to each of them.  Partners, members of limited liability 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 889 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1282
companies, and shareholders of tax-option corporations may claim the credit in 
proportion to their ownership interest.
(d)  Administration .  1.  Section 71.28 (4) (e), (g), and (h), as it applies to the 
credit under s. 71.28 (4), applies to the credits under this subsection. Section 71.28 
(4) (f), as it applies to the credit under s. 71.28 (4), applies to the credits under par. 
(b) 1. and 3.
2.  If the allowable amount of the claim under par. (b) 2. exceeds the tax 
otherwise due under s. 71.02 or no tax is due under s. 71.02, the amount of the 
claim not used to offset the tax due shall be certified by the department of revenue 
to the department of administration for payment by check, share draft, or other 
draft drawn from the appropriation account under s. 20.835 (2) (bm).
3.  Any person, including a nonprofit entity described in section 501 (c) (3) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, may sell or otherwise transfer a credit under this 
subsection, in whole or in part, to another person who is subject to the taxes 
imposed under s. 71.02, 71.23, or 71.43, if the person notifies the department of the 
transfer, and submits with the notification a copy of the transfer documents, and 
the department certifies ownership of the credit.  The transferee may first use the 
credit to offset tax of the transferor in the taxable year in which the transfer occurs 
and may use the credit only to offset tax in taxable years in which the credit is 
otherwise allowed to be claimed and carried forward by the original claimant.
SECTION  1283 .  71.07 (5h) of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (5h)  FILM PRODUCTION  COMPANY  INVESTMENT  CREDIT .  (a)  Definitions .  
In this subsection:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 890 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1283
1.  XClaimant Y means a person who files a claim under this subsection and 
who does business in this state as a film production company.
2.  XFilm production company Y means an entity that creates films, videos, 
broadcast advertisement, or television productions, not including the productions 
described under sub. (5f) (a) 1. a. to h.
3.  XPhysical work Y does not include preliminary activities such as planning, 
designing, securing financing, researching, developing specifications, or stabilizing 
property to prevent deterioration.
4.  XPreviously owned property Y means real property that the claimant or a 
related person owned during the 2 years prior to doing business in this state as a 
film production company and for which the claimant may not deduct a loss from the 
sale of the property to, or an exchange of the property with, the related person 
under section 267 of the Internal Revenue Code.
5.  XUsed exclusively Y means used to the exclusion of all other uses except for 
other use not exceeding 5 percent of total use.
(b)  Filing claims .  Subject to the limitations provided in this subsection, for 
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025, a claimant may claim as a credit 
against the tax imposed under s. 71.02, up to the amount of the taxes, for the first 3 
taxable years that the claimant is doing business in this state as a film production 
company, an amount that is equal to 25 percent of the following that the claimant 
paid in the taxable year to establish a film production company in this state:
1.  The purchase price of depreciable, tangible personal property.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 891 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1283
2.  The amount expended to acquire, construct, rehabilitate, remodel, or repair 
real property.
(c)  Limitations .  1.  A claimant may claim the credit under par. (b) 1., if the 
tangible personal property is purchased after December 31, 2025, and the personal 
property is used exclusively in the claimant [s business as a film production 
company.
2.  A claimant may claim the credit under par. (b) 2. for an amount expended to 
construct, rehabilitate, remodel, or repair real property, if the claimant began the 
physical work of construction, rehabilitation, remodeling, or repair, or any 
demolition or destruction in preparation for the physical work, after December 31, 
2025, or if the completed project is placed in service after December 31, 2025.
3.  A claimant may claim the credit under par. (b) 2. for an amount expended to 
acquire real property, if the property is not previously owned property and if the 
claimant acquires the property after December 31, 2025, or if the completed project 
is placed in service after December 31, 2025.
4.  No claim may be allowed under this subsection unless the department of 
tourism certifies, in writing, that the credits claimed under this subsection are for 
expenses related to establishing a film production company in this state and the 
claimant submits a copy of the certification with the claimant [s return.
5.  Partnerships, limited liability companies, and tax-option corporations may 
not claim the credit under this subsection, but the eligibility for, and the amount of, 
the credit are based on their payment of amounts under par. (b).  A partnership, 
limited liability company, or tax-option corporation shall compute the amount of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 892 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1283
credit that each of its partners, members, or shareholders may claim and shall 
provide that information to each of them.  Partners, members of limited liability 
companies, and shareholders of tax-option corporations may claim the credit in 
proportion to their ownership interests.
(d)  Administration .  1.  Section 71.28 (4) (e) to (h), as it applies to the credit 
under s. 71.28 (4), applies to the credits under this subsection.
2.  Any person, including a nonprofit entity described in section 501 (c) (3) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, may sell or otherwise transfer a credit under this 
subsection, in whole or in part, to another person who is subject to the taxes 
imposed under s. 71.02, 71.23, or 71.43, if the person notifies the department of the 
transfer, and submits with the notification a copy of the transfer documents, and 
the department certifies ownership of the credit.  The transferee may first use the 
credit to offset tax of the transferor in the taxable year in which the transfer occurs 
and may use the credit only to offset tax in taxable years in which the credit is 
otherwise allowed to be claimed and carried forward by the original claimant.
SECTION  1284 .  71.07 (5m) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (5m)  (a) 3.  XHousehold Y means a claimant and an individual related to 
the claimant as husband or wife his or her spouse.
SECTION  1285 .  71.07 (5n) (d) 2. of the statutes is renumbered 71.07 (5n) (d) 2. 
a. and amended to read:
71.07 (5n) (d) 2. a.  For Except as provided in subd. 2. b., c., and d., for 
purposes of determining a claimant [s eligible qualified production activities income 
under this subsection, the claimant shall multiply the claimant [s qualified 
production activities income from property manufactured by the claimant by the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 893 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1285
manufacturing property factor and qualified production activities income from 
property produced, grown, or extracted by the claimant by the agriculture property 
factor.  This subdivision does not apply if 
b.  Except as provided in subd. 2. d., if the claimant [s entire qualified 
production activities income results from the sale of tangible personal property that 
was manufactured, produced, grown, or extracted wholly in this state by the 
claimant, the claimant [s eligible qualified production activities income shall equal 
the amount of the claimant [s qualified production activities income.
SECTION  1286 .  71.07 (5n) (d) 2. c. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (5n) (d) 2. c.  Except as provided in subd. 2. d., for taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2024, for purposes of determining a claimant [s 
eligible qualified production activities income from manufacturing under this 
subsection, the claimant shall multiply the claimant [s qualified production 
activities income, not exceeding $300,000, from property manufactured by the 
claimant by the manufacturing property factor.
SECTION  1287 .  71.07 (5n) (d) 2. d. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (5n) (d) 2. d.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, if a 
claimant [s entire qualified production activities income results from the sale of 
tangible personal property that was manufactured, produced, grown, or extracted 
wholly in this state by the claimant, the claimant [s eligible qualified production 
activities income from manufacturing under this subsection shall equal the amount 
of the claimant [s qualified production activities income from property 
manufactured by the claimant, not exceeding $300,000.
SECTION  1288 .  71.07 (6e) (a) 2. b. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 894 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1288
71.07 (6e) (a) 2. b.  An individual who had served on active duty under 
honorable conditions in the U.S. armed forces or in forces incorporated as part of 
the U.S. armed forces; who was a resident of this state at the time of entry into that 
active service or who had been a resident of this state for any consecutive 5-year 
period after entry into that active duty service; who was a resident of this state at 
the time of his or her death; and who had either a service-connected disability 
rating of 100 at least 70 percent under 38 USC 1114 or 1134 or a 100 percent 
disability rating based on individual unemployability.
SECTION  1289 .  71.07 (6e) (a) 3. d. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (6e) (a) 3. d.  Has either a service-connected disability rating of 100 at 
least 70 percent under 38 USC 1114 or 1134 or a 100 percent disability rating based 
on individual unemployability.
SECTION  1290 .  71.07 (6e)  (a) 6. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (6e) (a) 6.  XRent constituting property taxes Y has the meaning given in 
sub. (9) (a) 4.
SECTION  1291 .  71.07 (6e) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (6e) (b)  Filing claims.   Subject to the limitations provided in this 
subsection, a claimant may claim as a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.02 
the amount of the claimant [s property taxes or rent constituting property taxes.  If 
the allowable amount of the claim exceeds the income taxes otherwise due on the 
claimant [s income, the amount of the claim not used as an offset against those taxes 
shall be certified by the department of revenue to the department of administration 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 895 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1291
for payment to the claimant by check, share draft, or other draft from the 
appropriation under s. 20.835 (2) (em).
SECTION  1292 .  71.07 (6e) (c) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (6e) (c) 3.  If an eligible veteran and an eligible spouse file separate 
returns, each spouse may claim a credit under this subsection for property taxes 
based on their respective ownership interest in the eligible veteran [s principal 
dwelling or for rent constituting property taxes based on 50 percent of the total rent 
constituting property taxes paid during the taxable year for the eligible veteran [s 
principal dwelling.
SECTION  1293 .  71.07 (6e) (c) 4. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (6e) (c) 4.  If a service-connected disability rating is less than 100 
percent, the amount that the claimant may claim under this subsection shall be 
multiplied by a percentage that equals that service-connected disability rating.
SECTION  1294 .  71.07 (8b) (a) 7. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (8b) (a) 7.  XQualified development Y means a qualified low-income 
housing project under section 42 (g) of the Internal Revenue Code that is financed 
with tax-exempt bonds, pursuant to section 42 (i) (2) described in section 42 (h) (4) 
(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, allocated the credit under section 42 of the 
Internal Revenue Code, and located in this state; except that the authority may 
waive, in the qualified allocation plan under section 42 (m) (1) (B) of the Internal 
Revenue Code, the requirements of tax-exempt bond financing and federal credit 
allocation to the extent the authority anticipates that sufficient volume cap under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 896 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1294
section 146 of the Internal Revenue Code will not be available to finance low-income 
housing projects in any year.
SECTION  1295 .  71.07 (8m) of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (8m)   UNIVERSAL  CHANGING  STATION  CREDIT .  (a)  Definitions.   In this 
subsection:
1.  XClaimant Y means a sole proprietor, a partner of a partnership, a member 
of a limited liability company, or a shareholder of a tax-option corporation who files 
a claim under this subsection and meets either of the following conditions during 
the preceding taxable year:
a.  Had gross receipts that did not exceed $1,000,000.
b.  Employed no more than 30 full-time employees.
2.  XFull-time employee Y means an individual who is employed for at least 30 
hours per week for 20 or more calendar weeks during a taxable year.
3.  XUniversal changing station Y means a powered and height-adjustable adult 
changing table that is either floor mounted or wall mounted with a safety rail and 
can be used by an individual with a disability of either sex and the individual [s care 
provider for personal hygiene and that satisfies all of the following:
a.  The changing table can lower to a height of 8 inches and raise to a height of 
34 inches.
b.  The changing table is at least 31 inches wide by 72 inches long.
c.  The changing table supports at least 350 pounds.
(b)  Filing claims.   For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, 
subject to the limitations provided in this subsection, a claimant may claim as a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 897 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1295
credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.02, up to the amount of those taxes, an 
amount equal to 50 percent of the amount the claimant paid during the taxable 
year to install a universal changing station.
(c)  Limitations.   1.  No credit may be claimed under this subsection unless the 
universal changing station is installed in a single-occupant restroom that measures 
at least 8 feet by 10 feet, with adequate space for a wheelchair and a care provider to 
maneuver; that is equipped with a waste receptacle, a toilet, a lavatory, a soap 
dispenser, and a paper towel dispenser; and that complies with accessibility 
standards under the federal Americans with Disabilities Act.
2.  The credit claimed under this subsection may not exceed $5,125.
3.  Partnerships, limited liability companies, and tax-option corporations may 
not claim the credit under this subsection, but the eligibility for, and the amount of, 
the credit are based on the amounts paid by the entity.  A partnership, limited 
liability company, or tax-option corporation shall compute the amount of credit that 
each of its partners, members, or shareholders may claim and shall provide that 
information to each of them.  Partners, members, and shareholders may claim the 
credit in proportion to their ownership interests.
(d)  Administration .  Section 71.28 (4) (e) to (h), as it applies to the credit under 
s. 71.28 (4), applies to the credit under this subsection.
SECTION  1296 .  71.07 (8s) of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (8s)  FLOOD  INSURANCE  PREMIUMS  CREDIT .  (a)  Definitions.   In this 
subsection:
1.  XClaimant Y means an individual who files a claim under this subsection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 898 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1296
2.  XFlood insurance Y means a flood insurance policy that covers the principal 
dwelling of the claimant.
(b)  Filing claims.   Subject to the limitations provided in this subsection, for 
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, a claimant may claim as a credit 
against the tax imposed under s. 71.02, up to the amount of those taxes, an amount 
equal to 10 percent of the amount of the premiums the claimant paid in the taxable 
year for flood insurance, but the amount of the credit may not exceed $60 in any 
taxable year.
(c)  Limitations.   1.  No credit may be claimed under this subsection by a part-
year resident or a nonresident of this state.
2.  No credit may be allowed under this subsection unless it is claimed within 
the period specified in s. 71.75 (2).
3.  No credit may be allowed under this subsection for a taxable year covering 
a period of less than 12 months, except for a taxable year closed by reason of the 
death of the taxpayer.
(d)  Administration .  Subsection (9e) (d), to the extent that it applies to the 
credit under that subsection, applies to the credit under this subsection.
SECTION  1297 .  71.07 (9e) (aj) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (9e) (aj) (intro.)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010, 
and before January 1, 2025, an individual may credit against the tax imposed under 
s. 71.02 an amount equal to one of the following percentages of the federal basic 
earned income credit for which the person is eligible for the taxable year under 
section 32 of the Internal Revenue Code:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 899 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1298
SECTION  1298 .  71.07 (9e) (ak) of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (9e) (ak)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, an 
individual may credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.02 an amount equal to 
one of the following percentages of the federal basic earned income credit for which 
the individual is eligible for the taxable year under section 32 of the Internal 
Revenue Code:
1.  If the individual has one qualifying child who has the same principal place 
of abode as the individual, 16 percent.
2.  If the individual has 2 qualifying children who have the same principal 
place of abode as the individual, 25 percent.
3.  If the individual has 3 or more qualifying children who have the same 
principal place of abode as the individual, 34 percent.
SECTION  1299 .  71.07 (9e) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (9e) (b)  No credit may be allowed under this subsection to married 
persons, except married persons living apart who are treated as single under 
section 7703 (b) of the internal revenue code Internal Revenue Code, if the husband 
and wife spouses report their income on separate income tax returns for the taxable 
year.
SECTION  1300 .  71.07 (9m) (a) 1m. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1301 .  71.07 (9m) (a) 2m. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (9m)  (a) 2m.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013, and 
before January 1, 2026, any person may claim as a credit against taxes otherwise 
due under s. 71.02, up to the amount of those taxes, an amount equal to 20 percent 
of the costs of qualified rehabilitation expenditures, as defined in section 47 (c) (2) of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 900 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1301
the Internal Revenue Code, for certified historic structures on property located in 
this state, if the cost of the person [s qualified rehabilitation expenditures is at least 
$50,000 and the rehabilitated property is placed in service after December 31, 
2013.
SECTION  1302 .  71.07 (9m) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (9m)  (a) 3.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013, and 
before January 1, 2026, any person may claim as a credit against taxes otherwise 
due under s. 71.02, up to the amount of those taxes, an amount equal to 20 percent 
of the costs of qualified rehabilitation expenditures, as defined in section 47 (c) (2) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, for qualified rehabilitated buildings, as defined in 
section 47 (c) (1) of the Internal Revenue Code, on property located in this state, if 
the cost of the person [s qualified rehabilitation expenditures is at least $50,000 and 
the rehabilitated property is placed in service after December 31, 2013, and 
regardless of whether the rehabilitated property is used for multiple or revenue-
producing purposes.  No credit may be claimed under this subdivision for property 
listed as a contributing building in the state register of historic places or in the 
national register of historic places and no credit may be claimed under this 
subdivision for nonhistoric, nonresidential property converted into housing if the 
property has been previously used for housing.
SECTION  1303 .  71.07 (9m) (a) 4. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (9m)  (a) 4.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025, any 
person may claim as a credit against taxes otherwise due under s. 71.02, up to the 
amount of those taxes, an amount equal to 20 percent of the costs of qualified 
rehabilitation expenditures, as defined in section 47 (c) (2) of the Internal Revenue 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 901 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1303
Code, for property located in this state, if the rehabilitated property is placed in 
service after December 31, 2025.
SECTION  1304 .  71.07 (9m) (c) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (9m)  (c) (intro.)  No person may claim the credit under par. (a) 2m. or 4. 
unless the claimant includes with the claimant [s return a copy of the claimant [s 
certification under s. 238.17.  For certification purposes under s. 238.17, the 
claimant shall provide to the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation all of 
the following:
SECTION  1305 .  71.07 (9m) (cm) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (9m)  (cm)  Any credit claimed under this subsection par. (a) 2m. and 3. 
for Wisconsin purposes shall be claimed at the same time as for federal purposes.
SECTION  1306 .  71.07 (9m) (cn) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (9m)  (cn) (intro.)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014, 
and before January 1, 2026, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation 
shall certify a person to claim a credit under par. (a) 3. if all of the following apply:
SECTION  1307 .  71.07 (9m) (f) of the statutes is renumbered 71.07 (9m) (f) 1. 
and amended to read:
71.07 (9m)  (f) 1.  A partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option 
corporation may not claim the credit under this subsection par. (a) 2m. and 3.  The 
partners of a partnership, members of a limited liability company, or shareholders 
in a tax-option corporation may claim the credit under this subsection par. (a) 2m. 
and 3. based on eligible costs incurred by the partnership, company, or tax-option 
corporation.  The partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option corporation 
shall calculate the amount of the credit which may be claimed by each partner, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 902 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1307
member, or shareholder and shall provide that information to the partner, member, 
or shareholder.  For shareholders of a tax-option corporation, the credit may be 
allocated in proportion to the ownership interest of each shareholder.  Credits 
computed by a partnership or limited liability company may be claimed in 
proportion to the ownership interests of the partners or members or allocated to 
partners or members as provided in a written agreement among the partners or 
members that is entered into no later than the last day of the taxable year of the 
partnership or limited liability company, for which the credit is claimed.  For a 
partnership or limited liability company that places property in service after June 
29, 2008, and before January 1, 2009, the credit attributable to such property may 
be allocated, at the election of the partnership or limited liability company, to 
partners or members for a taxable year of the partnership or limited liability 
company that ends after June 29, 2008, and before January 1, 2010.  Any partner or 
member who claims the credit as provided under this paragraph shall attach a copy 
of the agreement, if applicable, to the tax return on which the credit is claimed.  A 
person claiming the credit as provided under this paragraph is solely responsible 
for any tax liability arising from a dispute with the department of revenue related 
to claiming the credit.
SECTION  1308 .  71.07 (9m) (f) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (9m)  (f) 2. a.  A partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option 
corporation may make an election under s. 71.21 (6) (a) or 71.365 (4m) (a) to claim 
the credit under par. (a) 4. against the net income or franchise tax otherwise 
payable to this state on income of the same year.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 903 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1308
b.  A partnership [s partners, limited liability company [s members, and tax-
option corporation [s shareholders may not claim the credit under par. (a) 4.
SECTION  1309 .  71.07 (9m) (g) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (9m)  (g) 1.  If Except as provided in subd. 1m., if a person who claims the 
credit under this subsection elects to claim the credit based on claiming amounts for 
expenditures as the expenditures are paid, rather than when the rehabilitation 
work is completed, the person shall file an election form with the department, in the 
manner prescribed by the department.
SECTION  1310 .  71.07 (9m) (g) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
71.07 (9m)  (g) 1m.  No person may claim the credit under par. (a) 4. unless the 
person claims the credit for the taxable year in which the rehabilitation work is 
completed.
SECTION  1311 .  71.07 (9m) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.07 (9m)  (h)  Any person, including a nonprofit entity described in section 
501 (c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code, may sell or otherwise transfer the credit 
under par. (a) 2m. or, 3., or 4., in whole or in part, to another person who is subject 
to the taxes imposed under s. 71.02, 71.23, or 71.43, if the person notifies the 
department of the transfer, and submits with the notification a copy of the transfer 
documents, and the department certifies ownership of the credit with each transfer.  
The transferor may file a claim for more than one taxable year on a form prescribed 
by the department to compute all years of the credit under par. (a) 2m. or, 3., or 4., 
at the time of the transfer request.  The transferee may first use the credit to offset 
tax in the taxable year of the transferor in which the transfer occurs and may use 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 904 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1311
the credit only to offset tax in taxable years otherwise allowed to be claimed and 
carried forward by the original claimant.
SECTION  1312 .  71.09 (13) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.09 (13) (a) 2.  The tax shown on the return for the preceding year.  If  a 
husband and wife spouses who filed separate returns for the preceding taxable year 
file a joint return, the tax shown on the return for the preceding year is the sum of 
the taxes shown on the separate returns of the husband and wife spouses.  If  a 
husband and wife spouses who filed a joint return for the preceding taxable year file 
separate returns, the tax shown on the return for the preceding year is the 
husband [s or wife [s each spouse [s proportion of that tax based on what their 
respective tax liabilities for that year would have been had they filed separately.
SECTION  1313 .  71.10 (4) (fs) of the statutes is created to read:
71.10 (4) (fs)  Film production company investment credit under s. 71.07 (5h).
SECTION  1314 .  71.10 (4) (ft) of the statutes is created to read:
71.10 (4) (ft)  Film production services credit under s. 71.07 (5f) (b) 1. and 3.
SECTION  1315 .  71.10 (4) (ha) of the statutes is created to read:
71.10 (4) (ha)  Universal changing station credit under s. 71.07 (8m).
SECTION  1316 .  71.10 (4) (hg) of the statutes is created to read:
71.10 (4) (hg)  Flood insurance premiums credit under s. 71.07 (8s).
SECTION  1317 .  71.10 (4) (i) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.10 (4) (i)  The total of claim of right credit under s. 71.07 (1), farmland 
preservation credit under ss. 71.57 to 71.61, farmland preservation credit, 2010 and 
beyond under s. 71.613, homestead credit property tax and rent rebate under subch. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 905 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1317
VIII, jobs tax credit under s. 71.07 (3q), business development credit under s. 71.07 
(3y), research credit under s. 71.07 (4k) (e) 2. a., film production services credit 
under s. 71.07 (5f) (b) 2., veterans and surviving spouses property tax credit under 
s. 71.07 (6e), enterprise zone jobs credit under s. 71.07 (3w), electronics and 
information technology manufacturing zone credit under s. 71.07 (3wm), earned 
income tax credit under s. 71.07 (9e), estimated tax payments under s. 71.09, and 
taxes withheld under subch. X.
SECTION  1318 .  71.125 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.125 (1)  Except as provided in sub. (2), the tax imposed by this chapter on 
individuals and the rates under s. 71.06 (1), (1m), (1n), (1p), (1q), (1r), and (2) shall 
apply to the Wisconsin taxable income of estates or trusts, except nuclear 
decommissioning trust or reserve funds, and that tax shall be paid by the fiduciary.
SECTION  1319 .  71.125 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.125 (2)  Each electing small business trust, as defined in section 1361 (e) 
(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, is subject to tax at the highest rate under s. 71.06 
(1), (1m), (1n), (1p), or (1q), or (1r), whichever taxable year is applicable, on its 
income as computed under section 641 of the Internal Revenue Code, as modified by 
s. 71.05 (6) to (12), (19) and (20).
SECTION  1320 .  71.17 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.17 (6)  FUNERAL  TRUSTS .  If a qualified funeral trust makes the election 
under section 685 of the Internal Revenue Code for federal income tax purposes, 
that election applies for purposes of this chapter and each trust shall compute its 
own tax and shall apply the rates under s. 71.06 (1), (1m), (1n), (1p), or (1q), or (1r).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 906 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1321
SECTION  1321 .  71.21 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.21 (4) (a)  The amount of the credits computed by a partnership under s. 
71.07 (2dm), (2dx), (2dy), (3g), (3h), (3n), (3q), (3s), (3t), (3w), (3wm), (3y), (4k), (4n), 
(5f), (5g), (5h), (5i), (5j), (5k), (5r), (5rm), (6n), (8m), and (10) and passed through to 
partners shall be added to the partnership [s income.
SECTION  1322 .  71.21 (6) (d) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.21 (6) (d) 3.  Except as provided in s. 71.07 (7) (b) 3. and (9m) (f) 2. a., the 
tax credits under this chapter may not be claimed by the partnership.
SECTION  1323 .  71.26 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.26 (1) (b)  Political units.   Income received by the United States, the state 
and all counties, cities, villages, towns, school districts, technical college districts, 
joint local water authorities created under s. 66.0823, transit authorities created 
under s. 66.1039, long-term care districts under s. 46.2895 or other political units of 
this state.
SECTION  1324 .  71.26 (2) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.26 (2) (a) 4.  Plus the amount of the credit computed under s. 71.28 (1dm), 
(1dx), (1dy), (3g), (3h), (3n), (3q), (3t), (3w), (3wm), (3y), (5f), (5g), (5h), (5i), (5j), (5k), 
(5r), (5rm), (6n), (8m), and (10) and not passed through by a partnership, limited 
liability company, or tax-option corporation that has added that amount to the 
partnership [s, limited liability company [s, or tax-option corporation [s income under 
s. 71.21 (4) or 71.34 (1k) (g).
SECTION  1325 .  71.26 (3) (j) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.26 (3) (j)  Sections 243, 244, 245, 245A, 246 and 246A are excluded and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 907 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1325
replaced by the rule that corporations may deduct from income dividends received 
from a corporation with respect to its common stock if the corporation receiving the 
dividends owns, directly or indirectly, during the entire taxable year at least 70 
percent of the total combined voting stock of the payor corporation.  In this 
paragraph, Xdividends received Y means gross dividends minus taxes on those 
dividends paid to a foreign nation and claimed as a deduction under this chapter.  
The same dividends may not be deducted more than once and may not be used in 
the determination of a net business loss under ss. 71.26 (4) and 71.45 (4).
SECTION  1326 .  71.26 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.26 (4) (a)  Except as provided in par. (b) and s. 71.80 (25), a corporation, 
except a tax-option corporation or an insurer to which s. 71.45 (4) applies, may offset 
against its Wisconsin net business income any Wisconsin net business loss incurred 
in any of the 20 immediately preceding taxable years, if the corporation was subject 
to taxation under this chapter in the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, to 
the extent not offset by other items of Wisconsin income in the loss year and by 
Wisconsin net business income of any year between the loss year and the taxable 
year for which an offset is claimed.  For purposes of this subsection, Wisconsin net 
business income or loss shall consist of all the income attributable to the operation 
of a trade or business in this state, less the business expenses allowed as deductions 
in computing net income, except that the dividends received deduction under sub. 
(3) (j) may not be used in the determination of a net business loss.  The Wisconsin 
net business income or loss of corporations engaged in business within and without 
the state shall be determined under s. 71.25 (6) and (10) to (12).  Nonapportionable 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 908 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1326
losses having a Wisconsin situs under s. 71.25 (5) (b) shall be included in Wisconsin 
net business loss; and nonapportionable income having a Wisconsin situs under s. 
71.25 (5) (b), whether taxable or exempt, shall be included in other items of 
Wisconsin income and Wisconsin net business income for purposes of this 
subsection.
SECTION  1327 .  71.28 (3w) (a) 2m. of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (3w)  (a) 2m.  XContract Y means the contract between the claimant and 
the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation under s. 238.399.
SECTION  1328 .  71.28 (3w) (a) 6. of the statutes is renumbered 71.28 (3w) (a) 6. 
a. and amended to read:
71.28 (3w)  (a) 6. a.  XZone payroll Y means the amount of state payroll that is 
attributable to wages paid to full-time employees based in an enterprise zone.  
XZone Except as provided in subd. 6. b., Xzone payroll Y does not include the amount 
of wages paid to any full-time employees that exceeds $100,000.
SECTION  1329 .  71.28 (3w) (a) 6. b. of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (3w)  (a) 6. b.  For a claimant whose contract is executed after December 
31, 2025, Xzone payroll Y does not include the amount of wages paid to any full-time 
employees that exceeds $151,300.
SECTION  1330 .  71.28 (3w) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (3w)  (b)  Filing claims under pre-2026 contracts; payroll.   (intro.)  
Subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 238.399 or s. 560.799, 
2009 stats., a claimant whose contract is executed prior to January 1, 2026, may 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 909 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1330
claim as a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.23 an amount calculated as 
follows:
SECTION  1331 .  71.28 (3w) (bd) of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (3w)  (bd)  Filing claims under post-2025 contracts; payroll.   Subject to 
the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 238.399, a claimant whose 
contract is executed after December 31, 2025, may claim as a credit against the tax 
imposed under s. 71.23 an amount calculated as follows:
1.  Determine the amount that is the lesser of:
a.  The number of full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than 
$34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the 
taxable year, minus the number of full-time employees whose annual wages were 
greater than $34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a 
tier II county or municipality and who the claimant employed in the area that 
comprises the enterprise zone in the base year.
b.  The number of full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than 
$34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality and who the claimant employed in the state in the taxable year, 
minus the number of full-time employees whose annual wages were greater than 
$34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality and who the claimant employed in the state in the base year.
2.  Determine the claimant [s average zone payroll by dividing the total wages 
for full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than $34,220 in a tier I 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 910 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1331
county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county or municipality 
and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the taxable year by the 
number of full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than $34,220 in a 
tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county or 
municipality and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the taxable 
year.
3.  For employees in a tier I county or municipality, subtract $34,220 from the 
amount determined under subd. 2. and for employees in a tier II county or 
municipality, subtract $45,390 from the amount determined under subd. 2.
4.  Multiply the amount determined under subd. 3. by the amount determined 
under subd. 1.
5.  Multiply the amount determined under subd. 4. by the percentage 
determined under s. 238.399, not to exceed 7 percent.
SECTION  1332 .  71.28 (3w) (bm) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (3w)  (bm) 1.  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and (bd) and 
subds. 2., 3., and 4., and subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., a claimant may claim as a credit against the tax 
imposed under s. 71.23 an amount equal to a percentage, as determined under s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., not to exceed 100 percent, of the amount the 
claimant paid in the taxable year to upgrade or improve the job-related skills of any 
of the claimant [s full-time employees, to train any of the claimant [s full-time 
employees on the use of job-related new technologies, or to provide job-related 
training to any full-time employee whose employment with the claimant represents 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 911 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1332
the employee [s first full-time job.  This subdivision does not apply to employees who 
do not work in an enterprise zone.
SECTION  1333 .  71.28 (3w) (bm) 2. of the statutes is renumbered 71.28 (3w) 
(bm) 2. (intro.) and amended to read:
71.28 (3w)  (bm) 2. (intro.)  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and 
(bd) and subds. 1., 3., and 4., and subject to the limitations provided in this 
subsection and s. 238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., a claimant may claim as a 
credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.23 one of the following amounts:
a.  For a claimant whose contract is executed prior to January 1, 2026, an 
amount equal to the percentage, as determined under s. 238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 
stats., not to exceed 7 percent, of the claimant [s zone payroll paid in the taxable year 
to all of the claimant [s full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than 
the amount determined by multiplying 2,080 by 150 percent of the federal 
minimum wage in a tier I county or municipality, not including the wages paid to 
the employees determined under par. (b) 1., or greater than $30,000 in a tier II 
county or municipality, not including the wages paid to the employees determined 
under par. (b) 1., and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the 
taxable year, if the total number of such employees is equal to or greater than the 
total number of such employees in the base year.  A claimant may claim a credit 
under this subdivision for no more than 5 consecutive taxable years.
SECTION  1334 .  71.28 (3w) (bm) 2. b. of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (3w) (bm) 2. b.  For a claimant whose contract is executed after 
December 31, 2025, an amount equal to the percentage, as determined under s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 912 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1334
238.399, not to exceed 7 percent, of the claimant [s zone payroll paid in the taxable 
year to all of the claimant [s full-time employees whose annual wages are greater 
than $34,220 in a tier I county or municipality, not including the wages paid to the 
employees determined under par. (bd) 1., or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality, not including the wages paid to the employees determined under 
par. (bd) 1., and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the taxable 
year, if the total number of such employees is equal to or greater than the total 
number of such employees in the base year.
SECTION  1335 .  71.28 (3w) (bm) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (3w)  (bm) 3.  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and (bd) and 
subds. 1., 2., and 4., and subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., for taxable years beginning after December 31, 
2008, a claimant may claim as a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.23 up to 
10 percent of the claimant [s significant capital expenditures, as determined under 
s. 238.399 (5m) or s. 560.799 (5m), 2009 stats.
SECTION  1336 .  71.28 (3w) (bm) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (3w)  (bm) 4.  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and (bd) and 
subds. 1., 2., and 3., and subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., for taxable years beginning after December 31, 
2009, a claimant may claim as a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.23, up to 
1 percent of the amount that the claimant paid in the taxable year to purchase 
tangible personal property, items, property, or goods under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), or 
(d), or services from Wisconsin vendors, as determined under s. 238.399 (5) (e) or s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 913 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1336
560.799 (5) (e), 2009 stats., except that the claimant may not claim the credit under 
this subdivision and subd. 3. for the same expenditures.
SECTION  1337 .  71.28 (3w) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (3w)  (cm)  Inflation adjustments.  For taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2026, the dollar amounts in pars. (a) 6. b., (bd) 1. a. and b., 2., and 3., 
and (bm) 2. b. shall be increased each year by a percentage equal to the percentage 
change between the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city 
average, for the month of August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price 
index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August of the year 
before the previous year, as determined by the federal department of labor.  Each 
amount that is revised under this paragraph shall be rounded to the nearest 
multiple of $10 if the revised amount is not a multiple of $10 or, if the revised 
amount is a multiple of $5, such an amount shall be increased to the next higher 
multiple of $10.
SECTION  1338 .  71.28 (3y) (b) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (3y) (b) 6.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, and 
before January 1, 2025, the amount of the investment in workforce housing, as 
defined in s. 234.66 (1) (i), for employees, not to exceed 15 percent of such 
investment, and, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, the amount 
of the investment made in establishing an employee child care program for 
employees, not to exceed 15 percent of such investment, as determined by the 
Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation.
SECTION  1339 .  71.28 (3y) (b) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (3y) (b) 7.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 914 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1339
amount of the investment in workforce housing, as defined in s. 234.66 (1) (i), for 
employees, including contributions made by the person to a 3rd party responsible 
for building or rehabilitating workforce housing, including contributions made to a 
local revolving loan fund program, not to exceed 15 percent of such investment.
SECTION  1340 .  71.28 (4) (ad) 4. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (4) (ad) 4. a.  Except as provided in subds. 5. and, 6., and 7. for taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2014, a corporation may claim a credit against 
the tax imposed under s. 71.23, as allocated under par. (d), an amount equal to 5.75 
percent of the amount by which the corporation [s qualified research expenses for 
the taxable year exceed 50 percent of the average qualified research expenses for 
the 3 taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year for which the claimant 
claims the credit.  If the corporation had no qualified research expenses in any of 
the 3 taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year for which the claimant 
claims the credit, the claimant may claim an amount equal to 2.875 percent of the 
corporation [s qualified research expenses for the taxable year for which the 
claimant claims the credit.
SECTION  1341 .  71.28 (4) (ad) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (4) (ad) 7. a.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, an 
individual, a partner of a partnership, a shareholder of a tax-option corporation, or 
a member of a limited liability company may claim a credit against the tax imposed 
under s. 71.23, as allocated under par. (d), an amount equal to 11.5 percent of the 
amount by which the individual [s, partnership [s, tax-option corporation [s, or 
limited liability company [s qualified research expenses for the taxable year exceed 
50 percent of the average qualified research expenses for the 3 taxable years 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 915 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1341
immediately preceding the taxable year for which the claimant claims the credit.  If 
the individual, partnership, tax-option corporation, or limited liability company had 
no qualified research expenses in any of the 3 taxable years immediately preceding 
the taxable year for which the claimant claims the credit, the claimant may claim 
an amount equal to 5.75 percent of the individual [s, partnership [s, tax-option 
corporation [s, or limited liability company [s qualified research expenses for the 
taxable year for which the claimant claims the credit.
b.  For purposes of subd. 7. a., Xqualified research expenses Y means qualified 
research expenses as defined in section 41 of the Internal Revenue Code, except 
that Xqualified research expenses Y includes only expenses incurred by the 
individual, partnership, tax-option corporation, or limited liability company for 
research related to nuclear power, incurred for research conducted in this state, for 
the taxable year and does not include compensation used in computing the credit 
under sub. (1dx).  Section 41 (f) (1), (2), (5), and (6) and (h) of the Internal Revenue 
Code does not apply to the credit under this subdivision.
SECTION  1342 .  71.28 (4) (k) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (4) (k)  Refunds.   (intro.)  Notwithstanding par. (f), for taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2017, if the allowable amount of the claim under par. 
(ad) 4., 5., or 6., or 7. exceeds the tax otherwise due under s. 71.23, all of the 
following apply:
SECTION  1343 .  71.28 (4) (k) 1. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (4) (k) 1. c.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, the 
amount of the claim not used to offset the tax due, not to exceed 25 percent of the 
allowable amount of the claim under par. (ad) 4., 5., or 6., or 7., shall be certified by 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 916 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1343
the department of revenue to the department of administration for payment by 
check, share draft, or other draft drawn from the appropriation account under s. 
20.835 (2) (d).
SECTION  1344 .  71.28 (5f) of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (5f)  FILM PRODUCTION  SERVICES  CREDIT .  (a)  Definitions .  In this 
subsection:
1.  XAccredited production Y means a film, video, broadcast advertisement, or 
television production, as approved by the department of tourism, for which the 
aggregate salary and wages included in the cost of the production for the period 
ending 12 months after the month in which the principal filming or taping of the 
production begins exceeds $100,000 for a production that is 30 minutes or longer or 
$50,000 for a production that is less than 30 minutes.  XAccredited production Y does 
not include any of the following, regardless of the production costs:
a.  News, current events, or public programming or a program that includes 
weather or market reports.
b.  A talk show.
c.  A production with respect to a questionnaire or contest.
d.  A sports event or sports activity.
e.  A gala presentation or awards show.
f.  A finished production that solicits funds.
g.  A production for which the production company is required under 18 USC 
2257 to maintain records with respect to a performer portrayed in a single media or 
multimedia program.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 917 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1344
h.  A production produced primarily for industrial, corporate, or institutional 
purposes.
2.  XClaimant Y means a film production company, as defined in sub. (5h) (a) 2., 
that operates an accredited production in this state, if the company owns the 
copyright in the accredited production or has contracted directly with the copyright 
owner or a person acting on the owner [s behalf and if the company has a viable plan, 
as determined by the department of tourism, for the commercial distribution of the 
finished production.
3.  XCommercial domicile Y means the location from which a trade or business 
is principally managed and directed, based on any factors the department of 
tourism determines are appropriate, including the location where the greatest 
number of employees of the trade or business work, the trade or business has its 
office or base of operations, or from which the employees are directed or controlled.
4.  XProduction expenditures Y means any expenditure that is incurred in this 
state and directly used to produce an accredited production, including expenditures 
for writing, budgeting, casting, location scouts, set construction and operation, 
wardrobes, makeup, clothing accessories, photography, sound recording, sound 
synchronization, sound mixing, lighting, editing, film processing, film transferring, 
special effects, visual effects, renting or leasing facilities or equipment, renting or 
leasing motor vehicles, food, lodging, and any other similar pre-production, 
production, and post-production expenditure as determined by the department of 
tourism.  XProduction expenditures Y includes expenditures for music that is 
performed, composed, or recorded by a musician who is a resident of this state or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 918 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1344
published or distributed by an entity that has its commercial domicile in this state; 
air travel that is purchased from a travel agency or company that has its commercial 
domicile in this state; and insurance that is purchased from an insurance agency or 
company that has its commercial domicile in this state.  XProduction expenditures Y 
does not include salary or wages or expenditures for the marketing and distribution 
of an accredited production.
(b)  Filing claims .  Subject to the limitations provided in this subsection, for 
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025, a claimant may claim as a credit 
against the tax imposed under s. 71.23 any of the following amounts:
1.  An amount equal to 25 percent of the salary or wages paid by the claimant 
to the claimant [s employees in the taxable year for services rendered in this state to 
produce an accredited production and paid to employees who were residents of this 
state at the time that they were paid.
2.  An amount equal to 25 percent of the production expenditures paid by the 
claimant in the taxable year to produce an accredited production.
3.  An amount equal to the taxes imposed under ss. 77.52 and 77.53 that the 
claimant paid in the taxable year on the purchase of tangible personal property and 
taxable services that are used directly in producing an accredited production in this 
state, including all stages from the final script stage to the distribution of the 
finished production.
(c)  Limitations .  1.  No amount of the salary or wages paid under par. (b) 1. 
may be the basis for a credit under this subsection unless the salary or wages are 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 919 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1344
paid for services rendered after December 31, 2025, and directly incurred to 
produce the accredited production.
2.  The total amount of the credits that may be claimed by a claimant under 
par. (b) 1. shall not exceed an amount equal to the first $250,000 of salary or wages 
paid to each of the claimant [s employees, as described in par. (b) 1., in the taxable 
year, not including the salary or wages paid to the claimant [s 2 highest-paid 
employees, as described in par. (b) 1., in the taxable year, if the claimant [s budgeted 
production expenditures are $1,000,000 or more.
3.  No credit may be allowed under this subsection unless the claimant files an 
application with the department of tourism, at the time and in the manner 
prescribed by the office, and the office approves the application.  The claimant shall 
submit a copy of the approved application with the claimant [s return.
4.  Partnerships, limited liability companies, and tax-option corporations may 
not claim the credit under this subsection, but the eligibility for, and the amount of, 
the credit are based on their payment of amounts under par. (b).  A partnership, 
limited liability company, or tax-option corporation shall compute the amount of 
credit that each of its partners, members, or shareholders may claim and shall 
provide that information to each of them.  Partners, members of limited liability 
companies, and shareholders of tax-option corporations may claim the credit in 
proportion to their ownership interest.
(d)  Administration .  1.  Subsection (4) (e), (g), and (h), as it applies to the credit 
under sub. (4), applies to the credits under this subsection.  Subsection (4) (f), as it 
applies to the credit under sub. (4), applies to the credits under par. (b) 1. and 3.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 920 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1344
2.  If the allowable amount of the claim under par. (b) 2. exceeds the tax 
otherwise due under s. 71.23 or no tax is due under s. 71.23, the amount of the 
claim not used to offset the tax due shall be certified by the department of revenue 
to the department of administration for payment by check, share draft, or other 
draft drawn from the appropriation account under s. 20.835 (2) (bm).
3.  Any person, including a nonprofit entity described in section 501 (c) (3) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, may sell or otherwise transfer a credit under this 
subsection, in whole or in part, to another person who is subject to the taxes 
imposed under s. 71.02, 71.23, or 71.43, if the person notifies the department of the 
transfer, and submits with the notification a copy of the transfer documents, and 
the department certifies ownership of the credit.  The transferee may first use the 
credit to offset tax of the transferor in the taxable year in which the transfer occurs 
and may use the credit only to offset tax in taxable years in which the credit is 
otherwise allowed to be claimed and carried forward by the original claimant.
SECTION  1345 .  71.28 (5h) of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (5h)  FILM PRODUCTION  COMPANY  INVESTMENT  CREDIT .  (a)  Definitions .  
In this subsection:
1.  XClaimant Y means a person who files a claim under this subsection and 
who does business in this state as a film production company.
2.  XFilm production company Y means an entity that creates films, videos, 
broadcast advertisement, or television productions, not including the productions 
described under sub. (5f) (a) 1. a. to h.
3.  XPhysical work Y does not include preliminary activities such as planning, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 921 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1345
designing, securing financing, researching, developing specifications, or stabilizing 
property to prevent deterioration.
4.  XPreviously owned property Y means real property that the claimant or a 
related person owned during the 2 years prior to doing business in this state as a 
film production company and for which the claimant may not deduct a loss from the 
sale of the property to, or an exchange of the property with, the related person 
under section 267 of the Internal Revenue Code.
5.  XUsed exclusively Y means used to the exclusion of all other uses except for 
other use not exceeding 5 percent of total use.
(b)  Filing claims .  Subject to the limitations provided in this subsection, for 
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025, a claimant may claim as a credit 
against the tax imposed under s. 71.23, up to the amount of the taxes, for the first 3 
taxable years that the claimant is doing business in this state as a film production 
company, an amount that is equal to 25 percent of the following that the claimant 
paid in the taxable year to establish a film production company in this state:
1.  The purchase price of depreciable, tangible personal property.
2.  The amount expended to acquire, construct, rehabilitate, remodel, or repair 
real property.
(c)  Limitations .  1.  A claimant may claim the credit under par. (b) 1., if the 
tangible personal property is purchased after December 31, 2025, and the personal 
property is used exclusively in the claimant [s business as a film production 
company.
2.  A claimant may claim the credit under par. (b) 2. for an amount expended to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 922 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1345
construct, rehabilitate, remodel, or repair real property, if the claimant began the 
physical work of construction, rehabilitation, remodeling, or repair, or any 
demolition or destruction in preparation for the physical work, after December 31, 
2025, or if the completed project is placed in service after December 31, 2025.
3.  A claimant may claim the credit under par. (b) 2. for an amount expended to 
acquire real property, if the property is not previously owned property and if the 
claimant acquires the property after December 31, 2025, or if the completed project 
is placed in service after December 31, 2025
4.  No claim may be allowed under this subsection unless the department of 
tourism certifies, in writing, that the credits claimed under this subsection are for 
expenses related to establishing a film production company in this state and the 
claimant submits a copy of the certification with the claimant [s return.
5.  Partnerships, limited liability companies, and tax-option corporations may 
not claim the credit under this subsection, but the eligibility for, and the amount of, 
the credit are based on their payment of amounts under par. (b).  A partnership, 
limited liability company, or tax-option corporation shall compute the amount of 
credit that each of its partners, members, or shareholders may claim and shall 
provide that information to each of them.  Partners, members of limited liability 
companies, and shareholders of tax-option corporations may claim the credit in 
proportion to their ownership interests.
(d)  Administration .  1.  Subsection (4) (e) to (h), as it applies to the credit 
under sub. (4), applies to the credits under this subsection.
2.  Any person, including a nonprofit entity described in section 501 (c) (3) of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 923 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1345
the Internal Revenue Code, may sell or otherwise transfer a credit under this 
subsection, in whole or in part, to another person who is subject to the taxes 
imposed under s. 71.02, 71.23, or 71.43, if the person notifies the department of the 
transfer, and submits with the notification a copy of the transfer documents, and 
the department certifies ownership of the credit.  The transferee may first use the 
credit to offset tax of the transferor in the taxable year in which the transfer occurs 
and may use the credit only to offset tax in taxable years in which the credit is 
otherwise allowed to be claimed and carried forward by the original claimant.
SECTION  1346 .  71.28 (5n) (d) 2. of the statutes is renumbered 71.28 (5n) (d) 2. 
a. and amended to read:
71.28 (5n) (d) 2. a.  Except as provided in subd. subds. 2. b., c., and d. and 3., 
for purposes of determining a claimant [s eligible qualified production activities 
income under this subsection, the claimant shall multiply the claimant [s qualified 
production activities income from property manufactured by the claimant by the 
manufacturing property factor and qualified production activities income from 
property produced, grown, or extracted by the claimant by the agriculture property 
factor.  This subdivision does not apply if 
b.  Except as provided in subds. 2. d. and 3., if the claimant [s entire qualified 
production activities income results from the sale of tangible personal property that 
was manufactured, produced, grown, or extracted wholly in this state by the 
claimant, the claimant [s eligible qualified production activities income shall equal 
the amount of the claimant [s qualified production activities income.
SECTION  1347 .  71.28 (5n) (d) 2. c. of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (5n) (d) 2. c.  Except as provided in subds. 2. d. and 3., for taxable years 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 924 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1347
beginning after December 31, 2024, for purposes of determining a claimant [s 
eligible qualified production activities income from manufacturing under this 
subsection, the claimant shall multiply the claimant [s qualified production 
activities income, not exceeding $300,000, from property manufactured by the 
claimant by the manufacturing property factor.
SECTION  1348 .  71.28 (5n) (d) 2. d. of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (5n) (d) 2. d.  Except as provided in subd. 3., for taxable years beginning 
after December 31, 2024, if a claimant [s entire qualified production activities 
income results from the sale of tangible personal property that was manufactured, 
produced, grown, or extracted wholly in this state by the claimant, the claimant [s 
eligible qualified production activities income from manufacturing under this 
subsection shall equal the amount of the claimant [s qualified production activities 
income from property manufactured by the claimant, not exceeding $300,000.
SECTION  1349 .  71.28 (6) (a) 1m. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1350 .  71.28 (6) (a) 2m. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (6) (a) 2m.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013, and 
before January 1, 2026, any person may claim as a credit against taxes otherwise 
due under s. 71.23, up to the amount of those taxes, an amount equal to 20 percent 
of the costs of qualified rehabilitation expenditures, as defined in section 47 (c) (2) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, for certified historic structures on property located in 
this state, if the cost of the person [s qualified rehabilitation expenditures is at least 
$50,000 and the rehabilitated property is placed in service after December 31, 
2013.
SECTION  1351 .  71.28 (6) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 925 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1351
71.28 (6) (a) 3.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013, and 
before January 1, 2026, any person may claim as a credit against taxes otherwise 
due under s. 71.23, up to the amount of those taxes, an amount equal to 20 percent 
of the costs of qualified rehabilitation expenditures, as defined in section 47 (c) (2) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, for qualified rehabilitated buildings, as defined in 
section 47 (c) (1) of the Internal Revenue Code, on property located in this state, if 
the cost of the person [s qualified rehabilitation expenditures is at least $50,000 and 
the rehabilitated property is placed in service after December 31, 2013, and 
regardless of whether the rehabilitated property is used for multiple or revenue-
producing purposes.  No credit may be claimed under this subdivision for property 
listed as a contributing building in the state register of historic places or in the 
national register of historic places and no credit may be claimed under this 
subdivision for nonhistoric, nonresidential property converted into housing if the 
property has been previously used for housing.
SECTION  1352 .  71.28 (6) (a) 4. of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (6) (a) 4.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025, any 
person may claim as a credit against taxes otherwise due under s. 71.23, up to the 
amount of those taxes, an amount equal to 20 percent of the costs of qualified 
rehabilitation expenditures, as defined in section 47 (c) (2) of the Internal Revenue 
Code, for property located in this state, if the rehabilitated property is placed in 
service after December 31, 2025.
SECTION  1353 .  71.28 (6) (c) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (6) (c) (intro.)  No person may claim the credit under par. (a) 2m. or 4. 
unless the claimant includes with the claimant [s return a copy of the claimant [s 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 926 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1353
certification under s. 238.17.  For certification purposes under s. 238.17, the 
claimant shall provide to the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation all of 
the following:
SECTION  1354 .  71.28 (6) (cm) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (6) (cm)  Any credit claimed under this subsection par. (a) 2m. and 3. for 
Wisconsin purposes shall be claimed at the same time as for federal purposes.
SECTION  1355 .  71.28 (6) (cn) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (6) (cn) (intro.)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014, 
and before January 1, 2026, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation 
shall certify a person to claim a credit under par. (a) 3. if all of the following apply:
SECTION  1356 .  71.28 (6) (f) of the statutes is renumbered 71.28 (6) (f) 1. and 
amended to read:
71.28 (6) (f) 1.  A partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option 
corporation may not claim the credit under this subsection par. (a) 2m. and 3.  The 
partners of a partnership, members of a limited liability company, or shareholders 
in a tax-option corporation may claim the credit under this subsection par. (a) 2m. 
and 3. based on eligible costs incurred by the partnership, limited liability company, 
or tax-option corporation.  The partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option 
corporation shall calculate the amount of the credit which may be claimed by each 
partner, member, or shareholder and shall provide that information to the partner, 
member, or shareholder.  For shareholders of a tax-option corporation, the credit 
may be allocated in proportion to the ownership interest of each shareholder.  
Credits computed by a partnership or limited liability company may be claimed in 
proportion to the ownership interests of the partners or members or allocated to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 927 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1356
partners or members as provided in a written agreement among the partners or 
members that is entered into no later than the last day of the taxable year of the 
partnership or limited liability company, for which the credit is claimed.  For a 
partnership or limited liability company that places property in service after June 
29, 2008, and before January 1, 2009, the credit attributable to such property may 
be allocated, at the election of the partnership or limited liability company, to 
partners or members for a taxable year of the partnership or limited liability 
company that ends after June 29, 2008, and before January 1, 2010.  Any partner or 
member who claims the credit as provided under this paragraph shall attach a copy 
of the agreement, if applicable, to the tax return on which the credit is claimed.  A 
person claiming the credit as provided under this paragraph is solely responsible 
for any tax liability arising from a dispute with the department of revenue related 
to claiming the credit.
SECTION  1357 .  71.28 (6) (f) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (6) (f) 2. a.  A partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option 
corporation may make an election under s. 71.21 (6) (a) or 71.365 (4m) (a) to claim 
the credit under par. (a) 4. against the net income or franchise tax otherwise 
payable to this state on income of the same year.
b.  A partnership [s partners, limited liability company [s members, and tax-
option corporation [s shareholders may not claim the credit under par. (a) 4.
SECTION  1358 .  71.28 (6) (g) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (6) (g) 1.  If Except as provided in subd. 1m., if a person who claims the 
credit under this subsection elects to claim the credit based on claiming amounts for 
expenditures as the expenditures are paid, rather than when the rehabilitation 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 928 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1358
work is completed, the person shall file an election form with the department, in the 
manner prescribed by the department.
SECTION  1359 .  71.28 (6) (g) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (6) (g) 1m.  No person may claim the credit under par. (a) 4. unless the 
person claims the credit for the taxable year in which the rehabilitation work is 
completed.
SECTION  1360 .  71.28 (6) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (6) (h)  Any person, including a nonprofit entity described in section 501 
(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code, may sell or otherwise transfer the credit under 
par. (a) 2m. or, 3., or 4., in whole or in part, to another person who is subject to the 
taxes imposed under s. 71.02, 71.23, or 71.43, if the person notifies the department 
of the transfer, and submits with the notification a copy of the transfer documents, 
and the department certifies ownership of the credit with each transfer.  The 
transferor may file a claim for more than one taxable year on a form prescribed by 
the department to compute all years of the credit under par. (a) 2m. or, 3., or 4., at 
the time of the transfer request.  The transferee may first use the credit to offset tax 
in the taxable year of the transferor in which the transfer occurs, and may use the 
credit only to offset tax in taxable years otherwise allowed to be claimed and carried 
forward by the original claimant.
SECTION  1361 .  71.28 (8b) (a) 7. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.28 (8b) (a) 7.  XQualified development Y means a qualified low-income 
housing project under section 42 (g) of the Internal Revenue Code that is financed 
with tax-exempt bonds, pursuant to section 42 (i) (2) described in section 42 (h) (4) 
(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, allocated the credit under section 42 of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 929 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1361
Internal Revenue Code, and located in this state; except that the authority may 
waive, in the qualified allocation plan under section 42 (m) (1) (B) of the Internal 
Revenue Code, the requirements of tax-exempt bond financing and federal credit 
allocation to the extent the authority anticipates that sufficient volume cap under 
section 146 of the Internal Revenue Code will not be available to finance low-income 
housing projects in any year.
SECTION  1362 .  71.28 (8m) of the statutes is created to read:
71.28 (8m)   UNIVERSAL  CHANGING  STATION  CREDIT .  (a)  Definitions.   In this 
subsection:
1.  XClaimant Y means a person who files a claim under this subsection and 
meets either of the following conditions during the preceding taxable year:
a.  Had gross receipts that did not exceed $1,000,000.
b.  Employed no more than 30 full-time employees.
2.  XFull-time employee Y means an individual who is employed for at least 30 
hours per week for 20 or more calendar weeks during a taxable year.
3.  XUniversal changing station Y has the meaning given in s. 71.07 (8m) (a) 3.
(b)  Filing claims.   For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, 
subject to the limitations provided in this subsection, a claimant may claim as a 
credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.23, up to the amount of those taxes, an 
amount equal to 50 percent of the amount the claimant paid during the taxable 
year to install a universal changing station.
(c)  Limitations.   1.  No credit may be claimed under this subsection unless the 
universal changing station is installed in a single-occupant restroom that measures 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 930 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1362
at least 8 feet by 10 feet, with adequate space for a wheelchair and a care provider to 
maneuver; that is equipped with a waste receptacle, a toilet, a lavatory, a soap 
dispenser, and a paper towel dispenser; and that complies with accessibility 
standards under the federal Americans with Disabilities Act.
2.  The credit claimed under this subsection may not exceed $5,125.
3.  Partnerships, limited liability companies, and tax-option corporations may 
not claim the credit under this subsection, but the eligibility for, and the amount of, 
the credit are based on the amounts paid by the entity.  A partnership, limited 
liability company, or tax-option corporation shall compute the amount of credit that 
each of its partners, members, or shareholders may claim and shall provide that 
information to each of them.  Partners, members, and shareholders may claim the 
credit in proportion to their ownership interests.
(d)  Administration .  Subsection (4) (e) to (h), as it applies to the credit under 
sub. (4), applies to the credit under this subsection.
SECTION  1363 .  71.30 (3) (cu) of the statutes is created to read:
71.30 (3) (cu)  Universal changing station credit under s. 71.28 (8m).
SECTION  1364 .  71.30 (3) (epr) of the statutes is created to read:
71.30 (3) (epr)  Film production company investment credit under s. 71.28 
(5h).
SECTION  1365 .  71.30 (3) (eps) of the statutes is created to read:
71.30 (3) (eps)  Film production services credit under s. 71.28 (5f) (b) 1. and 3.
SECTION  1366 .  71.30 (3) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.30 (3) (f)  The total of farmland preservation credit under subch. IX, jobs 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 931 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1366
credit under s. 71.28 (3q), enterprise zone jobs credit under s. 71.28 (3w), electronics 
and information technology manufacturing zone credit under s. 71.28 (3wm), 
business development credit under s. 71.28 (3y), research credit under s. 71.28 (4) 
(k) 1., film production services credit under s. 71.28 (5f) (b) 2., and estimated tax 
payments under s. 71.29.
SECTION  1367 .  71.34 (1k) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.34 (1k) (g)  An addition shall be made for credits computed by a tax-option 
corporation under s. 71.28 (1dm), (1dx), (1dy), (3), (3g), (3h), (3n), (3q), (3t), (3w), 
(3wm), (3y), (4), (5), (5f), (5g), (5h), (5i), (5j), (5k), (5r), (5rm), (6n), (8m), and (10) and 
passed through to shareholders.
SECTION  1368 .  71.365 (4m) (d) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.365 (4m)  (d) 2.  Except as provided in s. 71.07 (7) (b) 3. and (9m) (f) 2. a., the 
tax credits under this chapter may not be claimed by the tax-option corporation.
SECTION  1369 .  71.45 (2) (a) 10. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.45 (2) (a) 10.  By adding to federal taxable income the amount of credit 
computed under s. 71.47 (1dm) to (1dy), (3g), (3h), (3n), (3q), (3w), (3y), (5f), (5g), 
(5h), (5i), (5j), (5k), (5r), (5rm), (6n), (8m), and (10) and not passed through by a 
partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option corporation that has added 
that amount to the partnership [s, limited liability company [s, or tax-option 
corporation [s income under s. 71.21 (4) or 71.34 (1k) (g) and the amount of credit 
computed under s. 71.47 (3), (3t), (4), (4m), and (5).
SECTION  1370 .  71.45 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.45 (4) (a)  Except as provided in par. (b) and s. 71.80 (25), insurers 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 932 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1370
computing tax under this subchapter may subtract from Wisconsin net income any 
Wisconsin net business loss incurred in any of the 20 immediately preceding 
taxable years, if the insurer was subject to taxation under this chapter in the 
taxable year in which the loss was incurred, to the extent not offset by Wisconsin 
net business income of any year between the loss year and the taxable year for 
which an offset is claimed and computed without regard to sub. (2) (a) 8. and 9. and 
this subsection and limited to the amount of net income, but no loss incurred for a 
taxable year before taxable year 1987 by a nonprofit service plan of sickness care 
under ch. 148, or dental care under s. 447.13 may be treated as a net business loss 
of the successor service insurer under ch. 613 operating by virtue of s. 148.03 or 
447.13.  For purposes of this paragraph, the dividends received deduction under s. 
71.26 (3) (j) may not be used in the determination of a net business loss.
SECTION  1371 .  71.47 (3w) (a) 2m. of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (3w)  (a) 2m.  XContract Y means the contract between the claimant and 
the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation under s. 238.399.
SECTION  1372 .  71.47 (3w) (a) 6. of the statutes is renumbered 71.47 (3w) (a) 6. 
a. and amended to read:
71.47 (3w)  (a) 6. a.  XZone payroll Y means the amount of state payroll that is 
attributable to wages paid to full-time employees based in an enterprise zone.  
XZone Except as provided in subd. 6. b., Xzone payroll Y does not include the amount 
of wages paid to any full-time employees that exceeds $100,000.
SECTION  1373 .  71.47 (3w) (a) 6. b. of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (3w)  (a) 6. b.  For a claimant whose contract is executed after December 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 933 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1373
31, 2025, Xzone payroll Y does not include the amount of wages paid to any full-time 
employees that exceeds $151,300.
SECTION  1374 .  71.47 (3w) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (3w)  (b)  Filing claims under pre-2026 contracts; payroll.   (intro.)  
Subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 238.399 or s. 560.799, 
2009 stats., a claimant whose contract is executed prior to January 1, 2026, may 
claim as a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.43 an amount calculated as 
follows:
SECTION  1375 .  71.47 (3w) (bd) of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (3w)  (bd)  Filing claims under post-2025 contracts; payroll.   Subject to 
the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 238.399, a claimant whose 
contract is executed after December 31, 2025, may claim as a credit against the tax 
imposed under s. 71.43 an amount calculated as follows:
1.  Determine the amount that is the lesser of:
a.  The number of full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than 
$34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the 
taxable year, minus the number of full-time employees whose annual wages were 
greater than $34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a 
tier II county or municipality and who the claimant employed in the area that 
comprises the enterprise zone in the base year.
b.  The number of full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than 
$34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 934 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1375
or municipality and who the claimant employed in the state in the taxable year, 
minus the number of full-time employees whose annual wages were greater than 
$34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality and who the claimant employed in the state in the base year.
2.  Determine the claimant [s average zone payroll by dividing the total wages 
for full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than $34,220 in a tier I 
county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county or municipality 
and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the taxable year by the 
number of full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than $34,220 in a 
tier I county or municipality or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county or 
municipality and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the taxable 
year.
3.  For employees in a tier I county or municipality, subtract $34,220 from the 
amount determined under subd. 2. and for employees in a tier II county or 
municipality, subtract $45,390 from the amount determined under subd. 2.
4.  Multiply the amount determined under subd. 3. by the amount determined 
under subd. 1.
5.  Multiply the amount determined under subd. 4. by the percentage 
determined under s. 238.399, not to exceed 7 percent.
SECTION  1376 .  71.47 (3w) (bm) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (3w)  (bm) 1.  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and (bd) and 
subds. 2., 3., and 4., and subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., a claimant may claim as a credit against the tax 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 935 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1376
imposed under s. 71.43 an amount equal to a percentage, as determined under s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., not to exceed 100 percent, of the amount the 
claimant paid in the taxable year to upgrade or improve the job-related skills of any 
of the claimant [s full-time employees, to train any of the claimant [s full-time 
employees on the use of job-related new technologies, or to provide job-related 
training to any full-time employee whose employment with the claimant represents 
the employee [s first full-time job.  This subdivision does not apply to employees who 
do not work in an enterprise zone.
SECTION  1377 .  71.47 (3w) (bm) 2. of the statutes is renumbered 71.47 (3w) 
(bm) 2. (intro.) and amended to read:
71.47 (3w)  (bm) 2. (intro.)  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and 
(bd) and subds. 1., 3., and 4., and subject to the limitations provided in this 
subsection and s. 238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., a claimant may claim as a 
credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.43 one of the following amounts:
a.  For a claimant whose contract is executed prior to January 1, 2026, an 
amount equal to the percentage, as determined under s. 238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 
stats., not to exceed 7 percent, of the claimant [s zone payroll paid in the taxable year 
to all of the claimant [s full-time employees whose annual wages are greater than 
the amount determined by multiplying 2,080 by 150 percent of the federal 
minimum wage in a tier I county or municipality, not including the wages paid to 
the employees determined under par. (b) 1., or greater than $30,000 in a tier II 
county or municipality, not including the wages paid to the employees determined 
under par. (b) 1., and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 936 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1377
taxable year, if the total number of such employees is equal to or greater than the 
total number of such employees in the base year.  A claimant may claim a credit 
under this subdivision for no more than 5 consecutive taxable years.
SECTION  1378 .  71.47 (3w) (bm) 2. b. of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (3w)  (bm) 2. b.  For a claimant whose contract is executed after 
December 31, 2025, an amount equal to the percentage, as determined under s. 
238.399, not to exceed 7 percent, of the claimant [s zone payroll paid in the taxable 
year to all of the claimant [s full-time employees whose annual wages are greater 
than $34,220 in a tier I county or municipality, not including the wages paid to the 
employees determined under par. (bd) 1., or greater than $45,390 in a tier II county 
or municipality, not including the wages paid to the employees determined under 
par. (bd) 1., and who the claimant employed in the enterprise zone in the taxable 
year, if the total number of such employees is equal to or greater than the total 
number of such employees in the base year.
SECTION  1379 .  71.47 (3w) (bm) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (3w)  (bm) 3.  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and (bd) and 
subds. 1., 2., and 4., and subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., for taxable years beginning after December 31, 
2008, a claimant may claim as a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.43 up to 
10 percent of the claimant [s significant capital expenditures, as determined under 
s. 238.399 (5m) or s. 560.799 (5m), 2009 stats.
SECTION  1380 .  71.47 (3w) (bm) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (3w)  (bm) 4.  In addition to the credits under par. pars. (b) and (bd) and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 937 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1380
subds. 1., 2., and 3., and subject to the limitations provided in this subsection and s. 
238.399 or s. 560.799, 2009 stats., for taxable years beginning after December 31, 
2009, a claimant may claim as a credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.43, up to 
1 percent of the amount that the claimant paid in the taxable year to purchase 
tangible personal property, items, property, or goods under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), or 
(d), or services from Wisconsin vendors, as determined under s. 238.399 (5) (e) or s. 
560.799 (5) (e), 2009 stats., except that the claimant may not claim the credit under 
this subdivision and subd. 3. for the same expenditures.
SECTION  1381 .  71.47 (3w) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (3w)  (cm)  Inflation adjustments.  For taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2026, the dollar amounts in pars. (a) 6. b., (bd) 1. a. and b., 2., and 3., 
and (bm) 2. b. shall be increased each year by a percentage equal to the percentage 
change between the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city 
average, for the month of August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price 
index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August of the year 
before the previous year, as determined by the federal department of labor.  Each 
amount that is revised under this paragraph shall be rounded to the nearest 
multiple of $10 if the revised amount is not a multiple of $10 or, if the revised 
amount is a multiple of $5, such an amount shall be increased to the next higher 
multiple of $10.
SECTION  1382 .  71.47 (3y) (b) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (3y) (b) 6.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, and 
before January 1, 2025, the amount of the investment in workforce housing, as 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 938 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1382
defined in s. 234.66 (1) (i), for employees, not to exceed 15 percent of such 
investment, and, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, the amount 
of the investment made in establishing an employee child care program for 
employees, not to exceed 15 percent of such investment, as determined by the 
Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation.
SECTION  1383 .  71.47 (3y) (b) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (3y) (b) 7.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, the 
amount of the investment in workforce housing, as defined in s. 234.66 (1) (i), for 
employees, including contributions made by the person to a 3rd party responsible 
for building or rehabilitating workforce housing, including contributions made to a 
local revolving loan fund program, not to exceed 15 percent of such investment.
SECTION  1384 .  71.47 (4) (ad) 4. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (4) (ad) 4. a.  Except as provided in subds. 5. and, 6., and 7., for taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2014, a corporation may claim a credit against 
the tax imposed under s. 71.43, as allocated under par. (d), an amount equal to 5.75 
percent of the amount by which the corporation [s qualified research expenses for 
the taxable year exceed 50 percent of the average qualified research expenses for 
the 3 taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year for which the claimant 
claims the credit.  If the corporation had no qualified research expenses in any of 
the 3 taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year for which the claimant 
claims the credit, the claimant may claim an amount equal to 2.875 percent of the 
corporation [s qualified research expenses for the taxable year for which the 
claimant claims the credit.
SECTION  1385 .  71.47 (4) (ad) 7. of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 939 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1385
71.47 (4) (ad) 7. a.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, an 
individual, a partner of a partnership, a shareholder of a tax-option corporation, or 
a member of a limited liability company may claim a credit against the tax imposed 
under s. 71.43, as allocated under par. (d), an amount equal to 11.5 percent of the 
amount by which the individual [s, partnership [s, tax-option corporation [s, or 
limited liability company [s qualified research expenses for the taxable year exceed 
50 percent of the average qualified research expenses for the 3 taxable years 
immediately preceding the taxable year for which the claimant claims the credit.  If 
the individual, partnership, tax-option corporation, or limited liability company had 
no qualified research expenses in any of the 3 taxable years immediately preceding 
the taxable year for which the claimant claims the credit, the claimant may claim 
an amount equal to 5.75 percent of the individual [s, partnership [s, tax-option 
corporation [s, or limited liability company [s qualified research expenses for the 
taxable year for which the claimant claims the credit.
b.  For purposes of subd. 7. a., Xqualified research expenses Y means qualified 
research expenses as defined in section 41 of the Internal Revenue Code, except 
that Xqualified research expenses Y includes only expenses incurred by the 
individual, partnership, tax-option corporation, or limited liability company for 
research related to nuclear power, incurred for research conducted in this state, for 
the taxable year and does not include compensation used in computing the credit 
under sub. (1dx).  Section 41 (f) (1), (2), (5), and (6) and (h) of the Internal Revenue 
Code does not apply to the credit under this subdivision.
SECTION  1386 .  71.47 (4) (k) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (4) (k)  Refunds.   (intro.)  Notwithstanding par. (f), for taxable years 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 940 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1386
beginning after December 31, 2017, if the allowable amount of the claim under par. 
(ad) 4., 5., or 6., or 7. exceeds the tax otherwise due under s. 71.43, all of the 
following apply:
SECTION  1387 .  71.47 (4) (k) 1. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (4) (k) 1. c.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, the 
amount of the claim not used to offset the tax due, not to exceed 25 percent of the 
allowable amount of the claim under par. (ad) 4., 5., or 6., or 7., shall be certified by 
the department of revenue to the department of administration for payment by 
check, share draft, or other draft drawn from the appropriation account under s. 
20.835 (2) (d).
SECTION  1388 .  71.47 (5f) of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (5f)  FILM PRODUCTION  SERVICES  CREDIT .  (a)  Definitions .  In this 
subsection:
1.  XAccredited production Y means a film, video, broadcast advertisement, or 
television production, as approved by the department of tourism, for which the 
aggregate salary and wages included in the cost of the production for the period 
ending 12 months after the month in which the principal filming or taping of the 
production begins exceeds $100,000 for a production that is 30 minutes or longer or 
$50,000 for a production that is less than 30 minutes.  XAccredited production Y does 
not include any of the following, regardless of the production costs:
a.  News, current events, or public programming or a program that includes 
weather or market reports.
b.  A talk show.
c.  A production with respect to a questionnaire or contest.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 941 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1388
d.  A sports event or sports activity.
e.  A gala presentation or awards show.
f.  A finished production that solicits funds.
g.  A production for which the production company is required under 18 USC 
2257 to maintain records with respect to a performer portrayed in a single media or 
multimedia program.
h.  A production produced primarily for industrial, corporate, or institutional 
purposes.
2.  XClaimant Y means a film production company, as defined in sub. (5h) (a) 2., 
that operates an accredited production in this state, if the company owns the 
copyright in the accredited production or has contracted directly with the copyright 
owner or a person acting on the owner [s behalf and if the company has a viable plan, 
as determined by the department of tourism, for the commercial distribution of the 
finished production.
3.  XCommercial domicile Y means the location from which a trade or business 
is principally managed and directed, based on any factors the department of 
tourism determines are appropriate, including the location where the greatest 
number of employees of the trade or business work, the trade or business has its 
office or base of operations, or from which the employees are directed or controlled.
4.  XProduction expenditures Y means any expenditure that is incurred in this 
state and directly used to produce an accredited production, including expenditures 
for writing, budgeting, casting, location scouts, set construction and operation, 
wardrobes, makeup, clothing accessories, photography, sound recording, sound 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 942 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1388
synchronization, sound mixing, lighting, editing, film processing, film transferring, 
special effects, visual effects, renting or leasing facilities or equipment, renting or 
leasing motor vehicles, food, lodging, and any other similar pre-production, 
production, and post-production expenditure as determined by the department of 
tourism.  XProduction expenditures Y includes expenditures for music that is 
performed, composed, or recorded by a musician who is a resident of this state or 
published or distributed by an entity that has its commercial domicile in this state; 
air travel that is purchased from a travel agency or company that has its commercial 
domicile in this state; and insurance that is purchased from an insurance agency or 
company that has its commercial domicile in this state.  XProduction expenditures Y 
does not include salary or wages or expenditures for the marketing and distribution 
of an accredited production.
(b)  Filing claims .  Subject to the limitations provided in this subsection, for 
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025, a claimant may claim as a credit 
against the tax imposed under s. 71.43 any of the following amounts:
1.  An amount equal to 25 percent of the salary or wages paid by the claimant 
to the claimant [s employees in the taxable year for services rendered in this state to 
produce an accredited production and paid to employees who were residents of this 
state at the time that they were paid.
2.  An amount equal to 25 percent of the production expenditures paid by the 
claimant in the taxable year to produce an accredited production.
3.  An amount equal to the taxes imposed under ss. 77.52 and 77.53 that the 
claimant paid in the taxable year on the purchase of tangible personal property and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 943 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1388
taxable services that are used directly in producing an accredited production in this 
state, including all stages from the final script stage to the distribution of the 
finished production.
(c)  Limitations .  1.  No amount of the salary or wages paid under par. (b) 1. 
may be the basis for a credit under this subsection unless the salary or wages are 
paid for services rendered after December 31, 2025, and directly incurred to 
produce the accredited production.
2.  The total amount of the credits that may be claimed by a claimant under 
par. (b) 1. shall not exceed an amount equal to the first $250,000 of salary or wages 
paid to each of the claimant [s employees, as described in par. (b) 1., in the taxable 
year, not including the salary or wages paid to the claimant [s 2 highest-paid 
employees, as described in par. (b) 1., in the taxable year, if the claimant [s budgeted 
production expenditures are $1,000,000 or more.
3.  No credit may be allowed under this subsection unless the claimant files an 
application with the department of tourism, at the time and in the manner 
prescribed by the office, and the office approves the application.  The claimant shall 
submit a copy of the approved application with the claimant [s return.
4.  Partnerships, limited liability companies, and tax-option corporations may 
not claim the credit under this subsection, but the eligibility for, and the amount of, 
the credit are based on their payment of amounts under par. (b).  A partnership, 
limited liability company, or tax-option corporation shall compute the amount of 
credit that each of its partners, members, or shareholders may claim and shall 
provide that information to each of them.  Partners, members of limited liability 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 944 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1388
companies, and shareholders of tax-option corporations may claim the credit in 
proportion to their ownership interest.
(d)  Administration .  1.  Section 71.28 (4) (e), (g), and (h), as it applies to the 
credit under s. 71.28 (4), applies to the credits under this subsection. Section 71.28 
(4) (f), as it applies to the credit under s. 71.28 (4), applies to the credits under par. 
(b) 1. and 3.
2.  If the allowable amount of the claim under par. (b) 2. exceeds the tax 
otherwise due under s. 71.43 or no tax is due under s. 71.43, the amount of the 
claim not used to offset the tax due shall be certified by the department of revenue 
to the department of administration for payment by check, share draft, or other 
draft drawn from the appropriation account under s. 20.835 (2) (bm).
3.  Any person, including a nonprofit entity described in section 501 (c) (3) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, may sell or otherwise transfer a credit under this 
subsection, in whole or in part, to another person who is subject to the taxes 
imposed under s. 71.02, 71.23, or 71.43, if the person notifies the department of the 
transfer, and submits with the notification a copy of the transfer documents, and 
the department certifies ownership of the credit.  The transferee may first use the 
credit to offset tax of the transferor in the taxable year in which the transfer occurs 
and may use the credit only to offset tax in taxable years in which the credit is 
otherwise allowed to be claimed and carried forward by the original claimant.
SECTION  1389 .  71.47 (5h) of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (5h)  FILM PRODUCTION  COMPANY  INVESTMENT  CREDIT .  (a)  Definitions .  
In this subsection:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 945 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1389
1.  XClaimant Y means a person who files a claim under this subsection and 
who does business in this state as a film production company.
2.  XFilm production company Y means an entity that creates films, videos, 
broadcast advertisement, or television productions, not including the productions 
described under sub. (5f) (a) 1. a. to h.
3.  XPhysical work Y does not include preliminary activities such as planning, 
designing, securing financing, researching, developing specifications, or stabilizing 
property to prevent deterioration.
4.  XPreviously owned property Y means real property that the claimant or a 
related person owned during the 2 years prior to doing business in this state as a 
film production company and for which the claimant may not deduct a loss from the 
sale of the property to, or an exchange of the property with, the related person 
under section 267 of the Internal Revenue Code.
5.  XUsed exclusively Y means used to the exclusion of all other uses except for 
other use not exceeding 5 percent of total use.
(b)  Filing claims .  Subject to the limitations provided in this subsection, for 
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025, a claimant may claim as a credit 
against the tax imposed under s. 71.43, up to the amount of the taxes, for the first 3 
taxable years that the claimant is doing business in this state as a film production 
company, an amount that is equal to 25 percent of the following that the claimant 
paid in the taxable year to establish a film production company in this state:
1.  The purchase price of depreciable, tangible personal property.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 946 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1389
2.  The amount expended to acquire, construct, rehabilitate, remodel, or repair 
real property.
(c)  Limitations .  1.  A claimant may claim the credit under par. (b) 1., if the 
tangible personal property is purchased after December 31, 2025, and the personal 
property is used exclusively in the claimant [s business as a film production 
company.
2.  A claimant may claim the credit under par. (b) 2. for an amount expended to 
construct, rehabilitate, remodel, or repair real property, if the claimant began the 
physical work of construction, rehabilitation, remodeling, or repair, or any 
demolition or destruction in preparation for the physical work, after December 31, 
2025, or if the completed project is placed in service after December 31, 2025.
3.  A claimant may claim the credit under par. (b) 2. for an amount expended to 
acquire real property, if the property is not previously owned property and if the 
claimant acquires the property after December 31, 2025, or if the completed project 
is placed in service after December 31, 2025.
4.  No claim may be allowed under this subsection unless the department of 
tourism certifies, in writing, that the credits claimed under this subsection are for 
expenses related to establishing a film production company in this state and the 
claimant submits a copy of the certification with the claimant [s return.
5.  Partnerships, limited liability companies, and tax-option corporations may 
not claim the credit under this subsection, but the eligibility for, and the amount of, 
the credit are based on their payment of amounts under par. (b).  A partnership, 
limited liability company, or tax-option corporation shall compute the amount of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 947 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1389
credit that each of its partners, members, or shareholders may claim and shall 
provide that information to each of them.  Partners, members of limited liability 
companies, and shareholders of tax-option corporations may claim the credit in 
proportion to their ownership interests.
(d)  Administration .  1.  Section 71.28 (4) (e) to (h), as it applies to the credit 
under s. 71.28 (4), applies to the credits under this subsection.
2.  Any person, including a nonprofit entity described in section 501 (c) (3) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, may sell or otherwise transfer a credit under this 
subsection, in whole or in part, to another person who is subject to the taxes 
imposed under s. 71.02, 71.23, or 71.43, if the person notifies the department of the 
transfer, and submits with the notification a copy of the transfer documents, and 
the department certifies ownership of the credit.  The transferee may first use the 
credit to offset tax of the transferor in the taxable year in which the transfer occurs 
and may use the credit only to offset tax in taxable years in which the credit is 
otherwise allowed to be claimed and carried forward by the original claimant.
SECTION  1390 .  71.47 (6) (a) 1m. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1391 .  71.47 (6) (a) 2m. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (6) (a) 2m.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013, and 
before January 1, 2026, any person may claim as a credit against taxes otherwise 
due under s. 71.43, up to the amount of those taxes, an amount equal to 20 percent 
of the costs of qualified rehabilitation expenditures, as defined in section 47 (c) (2) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, for certified historic structures on property located in 
this state, if the cost of the person [s qualified rehabilitation expenditures is at least 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 948 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1391
$50,000 and the rehabilitated property is placed in service after December 31, 
2013.
SECTION  1392 .  71.47 (6) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (6) (a) 3.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013, and 
before January 1, 2026, any person may claim as a credit against taxes otherwise 
due under s. 71.43, up to the amount of those taxes, an amount equal to 20 percent 
of the costs of qualified rehabilitation expenditures, as defined in section 47 (c) (2) of 
the Internal Revenue Code, for qualified rehabilitated buildings, as defined in 
section 47 (c) (1) of the Internal Revenue Code, on property located in this state, if 
the cost of the person [s qualified rehabilitation expenditures is at least $50,000 and 
the rehabilitated property is placed in service after December 31, 2013, and 
regardless of whether the rehabilitated property is used for multiple or revenue-
providing purposes.  No credit may be claimed under this subdivision for property 
listed as a contributing building in the state register of historic places or in the 
national register of historic places and no credit may be claimed under this 
subdivision for nonhistoric, nonresidential property converted into housing if the 
property has been previously used for housing.
SECTION  1393 .  71.47 (6) (a) 4. of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (6) (a) 4.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025, any 
person may claim as a credit against taxes otherwise due under s. 71.43, up to the 
amount of those taxes, an amount equal to 20 percent of the costs of qualified 
rehabilitation expenditures, as defined in section 47 (c) (2) of the Internal Revenue 
Code, for property located in this state, if the rehabilitated property is placed in 
service after December 31, 2025.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 949 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1394
SECTION  1394 .  71.47 (6) (c) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (6) (c) (intro.)  No person may claim the credit under par. (a) 2m. or 4. 
unless the claimant includes with the claimant [s return a copy of the claimant [s 
certification under s. 238.17.  For certification purposes under s. 238.17, the 
claimant shall provide to the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation all of 
the following:
SECTION  1395 .  71.47 (6) (cn) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (6) (cn) (intro.)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014, 
and before January 1, 2026, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation 
shall certify a person to claim a credit under par. (a) 3. if all of the following apply:
SECTION  1396 .  71.47 (6) (f) of the statutes is renumbered 71.47 (6) (f) 1. and 
amended to read:
71.47 (6) (f) 1.  A partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option 
corporation may not claim the credit under this subsection par. (a) 2m. and 3.  The 
partners of a partnership, members of a limited liability company, or shareholders 
in a tax-option corporation may claim the credit under this subsection par. (a) 2m. 
and 3. based on eligible costs incurred by the partnership, limited liability company, 
or tax-option corporation.  The partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option 
corporation shall calculate the amount of the credit which may be claimed by each 
partner, member, or shareholder and shall provide that information to the partner, 
member, or shareholder.  For shareholders of a tax-option corporation, the credit 
may be allocated in proportion to the ownership interest of each shareholder.  
Credits computed by a partnership or limited liability company may be claimed in 
proportion to the ownership interests of the partners or members or allocated to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 950 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1396
partners or members as provided in a written agreement among the partners or 
members that is entered into no later than the last day of the taxable year of the 
partnership or limited liability company, for which the credit is claimed.  For a 
partnership or limited liability company that places property in service after June 
29, 2008, and before January 1, 2009, the credit attributable to such property may 
be allocated, at the election of the partnership or limited liability company, to 
partners or members for a taxable year of the partnership or limited liability 
company that ends after June 29, 2008, and before January 1, 2010.  Any partner or 
member who claims the credit as provided under this paragraph shall attach a copy 
of the agreement, if applicable, to the tax return on which the credit is claimed.  A 
person claiming the credit as provided under this paragraph is solely responsible 
for any tax liability arising from a dispute with the department of revenue related 
to claiming the credit.
SECTION  1397 .  71.47 (6) (f) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (6) (f) 2. a.  A partnership, limited liability company, or tax-option 
corporation may make an election under s. 71.21 (6) (a) or 71.365 (4m) (a) to claim 
the credit under par. (a) 4. against the net income or franchise tax otherwise 
payable to this state on income of the same year.
b.  A partnership [s partners, limited liability company [s members, and tax-
option corporation [s shareholders may not claim the credit under par. (a) 4.
SECTION  1398 .  71.47 (6) (g) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (6) (g) 1.  If Except as provided in subd. 1m., if a person who claims the 
credit under this subsection elects to claim the credit based on claiming amounts for 
expenditures as the expenditures are paid, rather than when the rehabilitation 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 951 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1398
work is completed, the person shall file an election form with the department, in the 
manner prescribed by the department.
SECTION  1399 .  71.47 (6) (g) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (6) (g) 1m.  No person may claim the credit under par. (a) 4. unless the 
person claims the credit for the taxable year in which the rehabilitation work is 
completed.
SECTION  1400 .  71.47 (6) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (6) (h)  Any person, including a nonprofit entity described in section 501 
(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code, may sell or otherwise transfer the credit under 
par. (a) 2m. or, 3., or 4., in whole or in part, to another person who is subject to the 
taxes imposed under s. 71.02, 71.23, or 71.43, if the person notifies the department 
of the transfer, and submits with the notification a copy of the transfer documents, 
and the department certifies ownership of the credit with each transfer.  The 
transferor may file a claim for more than one taxable year on a form prescribed by 
the department to compute all years of the credit under par. (a) 2m. or, 3., or 4., at 
the time of the transfer request.  The transferee may first use the credit to offset tax 
in the taxable year of the transferor in which the transfer occurs, and may use the 
credit only to offset tax in taxable years otherwise allowed to be claimed and carried 
forward by the original claimant.
SECTION  1401 .  71.47 (8b) (a) 7. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.47 (8b) (a) 7.  XQualified development Y means a qualified low-income 
housing project under section 42 (g) of the Internal Revenue Code that is financed 
with tax-exempt bonds, pursuant to section 42 (i) (2) described in section 42 (h) (4) 
(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, allocated the credit under section 42 of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 952 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1401
Internal Revenue Code, and located in this state; except that the authority may 
waive, in the qualified allocation plan under section 42 (m) (1) (B) of the Internal 
Revenue Code, the requirements of tax-exempt bond financing and federal credit 
allocation to the extent the authority anticipates that sufficient volume cap under 
section 146 of the Internal Revenue Code will not be available to finance low-income 
housing projects in any year.
SECTION  1402 .  71.47 (8m) of the statutes is created to read:
71.47 (8m)  UNIVERSAL  CHANGING  STATION  CREDIT .  (a)  Definitions.   In this 
subsection:
1.  XClaimant Y means a person who files a claim under this subsection and 
meets either of the following conditions during the preceding taxable year:
a.  Had gross receipts that did not exceed $1,000,000.
b.  Employed no more than 30 full-time employees.
2.  XFull-time employee Y means an individual who is employed for at least 30 
hours per week for 20 or more calendar weeks during a taxable year.
3.  XUniversal changing station Y has the meaning given in s. 71.07 (8m) (a) 3.
(b)  Filing claims.   For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, 
subject to the limitations provided in this subsection, a claimant may claim as a 
credit against the tax imposed under s. 71.43, up to the amount of those taxes, an 
amount equal to 50 percent of the amount the claimant paid during the taxable 
year to install a universal changing station.
(c)  Limitations.   1.  No credit may be claimed under this subsection unless the 
universal changing station is installed in a single-occupant restroom that measures 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 953 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1402
at least 8 feet by 10 feet, with adequate space for a wheelchair and a care provider to 
maneuver; that is equipped with a waste receptacle, a toilet, a lavatory, a soap 
dispenser, and a paper towel dispenser; and that complies with accessibility 
standards under the federal Americans with Disabilities Act.
2.  The credit claimed under this subsection may not exceed $5,125.
3.  Partnerships, limited liability companies, and tax-option corporations may 
not claim the credit under this subsection, but the eligibility for, and the amount of, 
the credit are based on the amounts paid by the entity.  A partnership, limited 
liability company, or tax-option corporation shall compute the amount of credit that 
each of its partners, members, or shareholders may claim and shall provide that 
information to each of them.  Partners, members, and shareholders may claim the 
credit in proportion to their ownership interests.
(d)  Administration.   Section 71.28 (4) (e) to (h), as it applies to the credit under 
s. 71.28 (4), applies to the credit under this subsection.
SECTION  1403 .  71.49 (1) (cu) of the statutes is created to read:
71.49 (1) (cu)  Universal changing station credit under s. 71.47 (8m).
SECTION  1404 .  71.49 (1) (epr) of the statutes is created to read:
71.49 (1) (epr)  Film production company investment credit under s. 71.47 
(5h).
SECTION  1405 .  71.49 (1) (eps) of the statutes is created to read:
71.49 (1) (eps)  Film production services credit under s. 71.47 (5f) (b) 1. and 3.
SECTION  1406 .  71.49 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.49 (1) (f)  The total of farmland preservation credit under subch. IX, jobs 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 954 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1406
credit under s. 71.47 (3q), enterprise zone jobs credit under s. 71.47 (3w), business 
development credit under s. 71.47 (3y), research credit under s. 71.47 (4) (k) 1., film 
production services credit under s. 71.47 (5f) (b) 2., and estimated tax payments 
under s. 71.48.
SECTION  1407 .  Subchapter VIII (title) of chapter 71 [precedes 71.51] of the 
statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
CHAPTER 71
SUBCHAPTER VIII 
PROPERTY TAX AND RENT REBATE
SECTION  1408 .  71.52 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.52 (4)  XHousehold Y means a claimant and an individual related to the 
claimant as husband or wife his or her spouse.
SECTION  1409 .  71.54 (1) (g) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.54 (1) (g)  2012 and thereafter to 2025.   (intro.)  The amount of any claim 
filed in 2012 and thereafter to 2025 and based on property taxes accrued or rent 
constituting property taxes accrued during the previous year is limited as follows:
SECTION  1410 .  71.54 (1) (g) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.54 (1) (g) 4.  Except as provided in subds. 5. and 7., for For claims filed in 
2018 and thereafter and based on property taxes accrued or rent constituting 
property taxes accrued during the previous year, no credit may be allowed under 
this paragraph if the claimant has no earned income in the taxable year to which 
the claim relates unless the claimant is disabled and provides the proof required 
under subd. 6. or the claimant or the claimant [s spouse is over the age of 61 at the 
close of the year to which the claim relates.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 955 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1411
SECTION  1411 .  71.54 (1) (g) 5. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1412 .  71.54 (1) (g) 6. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.54 (1) (g) 6. (intro.)  With regard to a claimant who is disabled, the A 
claimant who is disabled shall provide with his or her return proof that his or her 
disability is in effect for the taxable year to which the claim relates.  Proof of 
disability may be demonstrated by any of the following:
SECTION  1413 .  71.54 (1) (g) 7. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1414 .  71.54 (1) (h) of the statutes is created to read:
71.54 (1) (h)  2026 and thereafter.   Subject to sub. (2m), the amount of any 
claim filed in 2026 and thereafter and based on property taxes accrued or rent 
constituting property taxes accrued during the previous year is limited as follows:
1.  If the household income was $19,000 or less in the year to which the claim 
relates, the claim is limited to 80 percent of the property taxes accrued or rent 
constituting property taxes accrued or both in that year on the claimant [s 
homestead.
2.  If the household income was more than $19,000 in the year to which the 
claim relates, the claim is limited to 80 percent of the amount by which the property 
taxes accrued or rent constituting property taxes accrued or both in that year on the 
claimant [s homestead exceeds 7.891 percent of the household income exceeding 
$19,000.
3.  No credit may be allowed if the household income exceeds $37,500.
4.  Notwithstanding the time limitations described in par. (g) (intro.), the 
provisions of par. (g) 4. apply to claims filed under this paragraph.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 956 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1415
SECTION  1415 .  71.54 (2) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.54 (2) (b) 4.  In calendar years 2011 or any subsequent calendar year to 
2024, $1,460.
SECTION  1416 .  71.54 (2) (b) 5. of the statutes is created to read:
71.54 (2) (b) 5.  Subject to sub. (2m), in calendar year 2025 or any subsequent 
calendar year, $1,460.
SECTION  1417 .  71.54 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.54 (2m)   INDEXING  FOR INFLATION ; 2010 2026 AND THEREAFTER .  (a)  For 
calendar years beginning after December 31, 2009, and before January 1, 2011 
2025, the dollar amounts of the threshold income under sub. (1) (f) (h) 1. and 2., the 
maximum household income under sub. (1) (f) (h) 3., and the maximum property 
taxes under sub. (2) (b) 3. 5. shall be increased each year by a percentage equal to 
the percentage change between the U.S. consumer price index for all urban 
consumers, U.S. city average, for the 12-month average of the U.S. consumer price 
index for the month of August of the year before the previous year through the 
month of July of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price index for all urban 
consumers, U.S. city average, for the 12-month average of the U.S. consumer price 
index for August 2007 through July 2008 2024, as determined by the federal 
department of labor, except that the adjustment may occur only if the percentage is 
a positive number.  Each amount that is revised under this paragraph shall be 
rounded to the nearest multiple of $10 if the revised amount is not a multiple of $10 
or, if the revised amount is a multiple of $5, such an amount shall be increased to 
the next higher multiple of $10.  The department of revenue shall annually adjust 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 957 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1417
the changes in dollar amounts required under this paragraph and incorporate the 
changes into the income tax forms and instructions.
(b)  The department of revenue shall annually adjust the slope under sub. (1) 
(f) (h) 2. such so that, as a claimant [s income increases from the threshold income as 
calculated adjusted under par. (a), to an amount that exceeds the maximum 
household income as calculated adjusted under par. (a), the credit that may be 
claimed is reduced to $0, and the department of revenue shall incorporate the 
changes into the income tax forms and instructions.
SECTION  1418 .  71.55 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.55 (3)  FORMS  TO BE PROVIDED  BY DEPARTMENT .  In administering this 
subchapter, the department of revenue shall make available suitable forms with 
instructions for claimants, including a form that may be included with, or as a part 
of, the individual income tax form.  In preparing homestead credit property tax and 
rent rebate forms, the department of revenue shall provide a space for identification 
of the county and city, village or town in which the claimant resides.
SECTION  1419 .  71.55 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.55 (5)  LEGISLATION  MAY BE PROPOSED  BY DEPARTMENT .  At the end of each 
fiscal year, the department of revenue shall review the homestead tax credit 
property tax and rent rebate program and may propose legislation to adjust the 
amounts of claims allowable under the program, taking into account findings that 
social security benefits and the cost of living, as reflected in the index computed by 
the U.S. bureau of labor statistics, have increased or decreased.
SECTION  1420 .  71.55 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.55 (7)  RECORDS  MAY BE REQUIRED  BY DEPARTMENT  TO DETERMINE  CORRECT  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 958 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1420
CREDIT .  To ascertain the correctness of any claim under this subchapter or to 
determine the amount of the credit under this subchapter of any person, the 
department may examine, or cause to be examined by any agent or representative 
designated by the department, any books, papers, records or memoranda bearing 
on the homestead credit property tax and rent rebate of the person, may require the 
production of the books, papers, records or memoranda, and require the attendance, 
of any person having relevant knowledge, and may take testimony and require proof 
material for its information.  Based on the information it discovers, the department 
shall determine the true amount of homestead credit the property tax and rent 
rebate during the year or years under investigation.
SECTION  1421 .  71.63 (6) (n) (intro.) of the statutes is renumbered 71.63 (6) (n) 
and amended to read:
71.63 (6) (n)  In the form of tips paid to employees if:.
SECTION  1422 .  71.63 (6) (n) 1. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1423 .  71.63 (6) (n) 2. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1424 .  71.64 (9) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.64 (9) (b) (intro.)  The department shall from time to time adjust the 
withholding tables to reflect any changes in income tax rates, any applicable surtax 
or any changes in dollar amounts in s. 71.06 (1), (1m), (1n), (1p), (1q), (1r), and (2) 
resulting from statutory changes, except as follows:
SECTION  1425 .  71.67 (5) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.67 (5) (a)  Wager winnings.   A person holding a license to sponsor and 
manage races under s. 562.05 (1) (b) or (c) shall withhold from the amount of any 
payment of pari-mutuel winnings under s. 562.065 (3) (a) or (3m) (a) an amount 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 959 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1425
determined by multiplying the amount of the payment by the highest rate 
applicable to individuals under s. 71.06 (1) (a) to (c), (1m), (1n), (1p), or (1q), or (1r) 
if the amount of the payment is more than $1,000.
SECTION  1426 .  71.67 (5m) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.67 (5m)   W ITHHOLDING  FROM  PAYMENTS  TO PURCHASE  ASSIGNMENT  OF 
LOTTERY  PRIZE .  A person that purchases an assignment of a lottery prize shall 
withhold from the amount of any payment made to purchase the assignment the 
amount that is determined by multiplying the amount of the payment by the 
highest rate applicable to individuals under s. 71.06 (1) (a) to (c), (1m), (1n), (1p), or 
(1q), or (1r).  Subsection (5) (b), (c) and (d), as it applies to the amounts withheld 
under sub. (5) (a), applies to the amount withheld under this subsection.
SECTION  1427 .  71.78 (4) (w) of the statutes is created to read:
71.78 (4) (w)  The secretary of health services and employees of the 
department of health services for the purpose of performing an evaluation under s. 
71.03 (9) (b).
SECTION  1428 .  71.78 (4) (x) of the statutes is created to read:
71.78 (4) (x)  The department of tourism to the extent necessary to administer 
the tax credits under ss. 71.07 (5f) and (5h), 71.28 (5f) and (5h), and 71.47 (5f) and 
(5h).
SECTION  1429 .  71.80 (3m) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
71.80 (3m)  (c)  If the department determines that a spouse is otherwise 
entitled to a state tax refund or homestead property tax and rent rebate or 
farmland credit, it shall notify the spouses under s. 71.74 (11) that the state intends 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 960 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1429
to reduce any state tax refund or a refundable credit due the spouses by the amount 
credited against any liability under par. (a) or (b) or both.
SECTION  1430 .  71.83 (1) (a) 8. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.83 (1) (a) 8.  ZJoint return replacing separate returns. [  If the amount shown 
as the tax by the husband and wife spouses on a joint return filed under s. 71.03 (2) 
(g) to (L) exceeds the sum of the amounts shown as the tax upon the separate return 
of each spouse and if any part of that excess is attributable to negligence or 
intentional disregard of this chapter, but without intent to defraud, at the time of 
the filing of that separate return, then 25 percent of the total amount of that excess 
shall be added to the tax.
SECTION  1431 .  71.83 (1) (b) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.83 (1) (b) 5.  ZJoint return after separate returns. [  If the amount shown as 
the tax by the husband and wife spouses on a joint return filed under s. 71.03 (2) (g) 
to (L) exceeds the sum of the amounts shown as the tax on the separate return of 
each spouse and if any part of that excess is attributable to fraud with intent to 
evade tax at the time of the filing of that separate return, then 50 percent of the 
total amount of that excess shall be added to the tax.
SECTION  1432 .  71.83 (5) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
71.83 (5) (a) 1.  XCreditY means the earned income tax credit under s. 71.07 
(9e), the homestead credit property tax and rent rebate under subch. VIII, the 
farmland preservation credit under subch. IX, or any refundable credit under s. 
71.07, 71.28, or 71.47.
SECTION  1433 .  71.98 (10) of the statutes is created to read:
71.98 (10)  FEDERAL  TAX CUTS AND JOBS ACT.  For taxable years beginning 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 961 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1433
after December 31, 2024, sections 11012, 13221, 13301, 13304 (a), (b), and (d), 
13531, and 13601 of P.L. 115-97.
SECTION  1434 .  73.01 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
73.01 (1) (b)  XSmall claims Y is a matter in which the amount in controversy, 
including any penalty, after the department of revenue takes its final action on the 
petition for redetermination is less than $2,500 the amount specified under s. 
799.01 (1) (d) for the applicability of ch. 799 to the types of civil actions described in 
s. 799.01 (1) (d) unless the commission on its own motion determines that the case 
not be heard as a small claims case or unless the department of revenue determines 
that the case has statewide significance.
SECTION  1435 .  73.01 (5) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
73.01 (5) (a)  Any person who is aggrieved by a determination of the state 
board of assessors under s. 70.995 (5n) or (8) or who has filed a petition for 
redetermination with the department of revenue and who is aggrieved by the 
redetermination of the department of revenue may, within 60 days of the 
determination of the state board of assessors or of the department of revenue or, in 
all other cases, within 60 days after the redetermination but not thereafter, file 
with the clerk of the commission a petition for review of the action of the 
department of revenue and the number of copies of the petition required by rule 
adopted by the commission.  Any person who is aggrieved by a determination of the 
department of transportation under s. 341.405 or 341.45 may, within 30 days after 
the determination of the department of transportation, file with the clerk of the 
commission a petition for review of the action of the department of transportation 
and the number of copies of the petition required by rule adopted by the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 962 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1435
commission.  If a municipality appeals, its appeal shall set forth that the appeal has 
been authorized by an order or resolution of its governing body and the appeal shall 
be verified by a member of that governing body as pleadings in courts of record are 
verified.  The clerk of the commission shall transmit one copy to the department of 
revenue, or to the department of transportation, and to each party.  In the case of 
appeals from manufacturing property assessments, the person assessed shall be a 
party to a proceeding initiated by a municipality.  Any petition for review filed 
under this paragraph may be submitted electronically.  At the time of filing the 
petition, the petitioner shall pay to the commission  a $25 the filing fee applicable 
under par. (am).  The commission shall deposit the fee in the general fund.  Within 
30 days after such transmission the department of revenue, except for petitions 
objecting to manufacturing property assessments, or the department of 
transportation, shall file with the clerk of the commission an original and the 
number of copies of an answer to the petition required by rule adopted by the 
commission and shall serve one copy on the petitioner or the petitioner [s attorney or 
agent.  Within 30 days after service of the answer, the petitioner may file and serve 
a reply in the same manner as the petition is filed.  Any person entitled to be heard 
by the commission under s. 76.38 (12) (a), 1993 stats., or s. 76.39 (4) (c) or 76.48 may 
file a petition with the commission within the time and in the manner provided for 
the filing of petitions in income or franchise tax cases.  Such papers may be served 
as a circuit court summons is served or by certified mail.  For the purposes of this 
subsection, a petition for review is considered timely filed if mailed by certified mail 
in a properly addressed envelope, with postage duly prepaid, which envelope is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 963 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1435
postmarked before midnight of the last day for filing, or if submitted electronically, 
is submitted by midnight of the last day for filing.
SECTION  1436 .  73.01 (5) (am) of the statutes is created to read:
73.01 (5) (am) 1.  Except as provided under subd. 2., at the time of filing a 
petition, the petitioner shall pay to the commission a fee of $250.
2.  For a petition involving a small claims case, at the time of filing the 
petition, the petitioner shall pay to the commission a fee of $25.
SECTION  1437 .  73.03 (40m) of the statutes is amended to read:
73.03 (40m)   To include on the form on which a homestead credit property tax 
and rent rebate is claimed information about the property tax deferral program.
SECTION  1438 .  73.03 (73) (f) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
73.03 (73) (f) 1.  Subject to subd. 2., for taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2020, the department shall make the pilot program described under 
par. (b) permanent and applicable to all eligible claimants of the earned income tax 
credit under s. 71.07 (9e) (aj), based on the specifications described under pars. (b) 
and (c) 2.
SECTION  1439 .  73.17 of the statutes is created to read:
73.17  Medical marijuana registry program.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this 
section:
(a)  XDebilitating medical condition or treatment Y means any of the following:
1.  Cancer; glaucoma; acquired immunodeficiency syndrome; a positive test for 
the presence of HIV, antigen or nonantigenic products of HIV, or an antibody to 
HIV; inflammatory bowel disease, including ulcerative colitis or Crohn [s disease; a 
hepatitis C virus infection; Alzheimer [s disease; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; nail 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 964 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1439
patella syndrome; Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome; post-traumatic stress disorder; or the 
treatment of these conditions.
2.  A chronic or debilitating disease or medical condition or the treatment of 
such a disease or condition that causes cachexia, severe pain, severe nausea, 
seizures, including those characteristic of epilepsy, or severe and persistent muscle 
spasms, including those characteristic of multiple sclerosis.
(b)  XDepartment Y means the department of revenue.
(c)  XPhysician Y means a person licensed under s. 448.04 (1) (a).
(d)  XQualifying patient Y means a person who has been diagnosed by a 
physician as having or undergoing a debilitating medical condition or treatment but 
does not include a person under the age of 18 years.
(e)  XRegistrant Y means a person who holds a registry identification card 
issued in sub. (4).
(f)  XTax exemption certificate Y means a certificate to claim the exemption 
under s. 77.54 (75).
(g)  XUsable marijuana Y has the meaning given in s. 139.97 (13).
(h)  XWritten certification Y means means a statement made by a person [s 
physician if all of the following apply:
1.  The statement indicates that, in the physician [s professional opinion, the 
person has or is undergoing a debilitating medical condition or treatment and the 
potential benefits of the person [s use of usable marijuana would likely outweigh the 
health risks for the person.
2.  The statement indicates that the opinion described in subd. 1. was formed 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 965 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1439
after a full assessment of the person [s medical history and current medical 
condition that was conducted no more than 6 months prior to making the statement 
and that was made in the course of a bona fide physician-patient relationship.
3.  The statement is signed by the physician or is contained in the person [s 
medical records.
4.  The statement contains an expiration date that is no more than 48 months 
after issuance and the statement has not expired.
(2)  APPLICATION .  An adult who is claiming to be a qualifying patient may 
apply for a registry identification card by submitting to the department a signed 
application form containing or accompanied by all of the following:
(a)  The person [s name, address, and date of birth.
(b)  A written certification.
(c)  The name, address, and telephone number of the person [s current 
physician, as listed in the written certification.
(3)  P ROCESSING  THE APPLICATION .  The department shall verify the 
information contained in or accompanying an application submitted under sub. (2) 
and shall approve or deny the application within 30 days after receiving it.  The 
department may deny an application submitted under sub. (2) only if the required 
information has not been provided or if false information has been provided.
(4)  I SSUING  A REGISTRY  IDENTIFICATION  CARD  AND TAX EXEMPTION  
CERTIFICATE .  The department shall issue to the applicant a registry identification 
card and tax exemption certificate within 5 days after approving an application 
under sub. (3).  Unless voided under sub. (5) (b) or revoked under rules issued by the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 966 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1439
department under sub. (7), a registry identification card and tax exemption 
certificate shall expire 4 years from the date of issuance.  A tax exemption 
certificate shall contain the required information, as determined by the department 
by rule.  A registry identification card shall contain all of the following:
(a)  The name, address, and date of birth of the registrant.
(b)  The date of issuance and expiration date of the registry identification card.
(c)  A photograph of the registrant.
(d)  Other information the department may require by rule.
(5)  A DDITIONAL  INFORMATION  TO BE PROVIDED  BY REGISTRANT .  (a)  A 
registrant shall notify the department of any change in the registrant [s name and 
address.  Each registrant shall notify the department of any change in their 
physician or of any significant improvement in their health as it relates to their 
debilitating medical condition or treatment.
(b)  If a registrant fails to notify the department within 10 days after any 
change for which notification is required under par. (a), their registry identification 
card and tax exemption certificate is void.
(6)  RECORDS .  (a)  The department shall maintain a list of all registrants.
(b)  Notwithstanding s. 19.35 and except as provided in par. (c), the 
department may not disclose information from an application submitted or a 
registry identification card issued under this section.
(c)  The department may disclose to state or local law enforcement agencies 
information from an application submitted by, or from a registry identification card 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 967 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1439
issued to, a specific person under this section for the purpose of verifying that the 
person possesses a valid registry identification card.
(7)  RULES .  The department shall promulgate rules to implement this section.
SECTION  1440 .  74.09 (3) (gb) of the statutes is created to read:
74.09 (3) (gb) 1.  Include information from the school district where the 
property is located regarding the amount of any gross reduction in state aid to the 
district under ss. 115.7915 (4m) and 118.60 (4d) in the previous year and the 
current year and the percentage change between those years, except that this 
paragraph does not apply in any year in which such a reduction does not occur.
2.  In addition to the information provided under subd. 1., include the 
following insert in substantially similar form:
XThe gross reduction in state aid to your school district in the .... (current year) 
is $ .... as a result of pupils enrolled in the .... (statewide choice program) (Racine 
choice program) or as a result of payments to .... (a private school) under the special 
needs scholarship program.  Your school district had the option to increase property 
taxes to replace this aid reduction. Y
SECTION  1441 .  76.07 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
76.07 (3)  ASSESSMENT .  For the purpose of determining the full market value 
of the property of each company appearing on the assessment roll, the department 
may view and inspect the property of such the company and shall consider the 
reports filed in compliance with s. 76.04 and the reports and returns of the company 
filed in the office of any officer of this state, and other evidence or information 
bearing upon the full market value of the property of the company assessed.  In case 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 968 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1441
of For companies which that own or use property lying partly within and partly 
without the state, the department shall value and assess only the property within 
this state, using the methods under subs. (4g) and (4r).  When the full market value 
of the property of a company within this state has been determined, the amount 
shall be entered upon the assessment roll opposite the name of the company and 
shall be the assessment of the entire property of such the company within this state 
for the levy of taxes thereon, subject to review and correction.  The department 
shall thereupon give notice by certified mail to each company assessed of the 
amount of its assessment as entered upon such the roll.
SECTION  1442 .  76.08 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
76.08 (1)  Notice of the assessments determined under s. 76.07 and of 
adjustments under s. 76.075 shall be given by certified mail to each company the 
property of which has been assessed, and the notice of assessment shall be mailed 
provided on or before the assessment date specified in s. 76.07 (1).  Any company 
aggrieved by the assessment or adjustment of its property thus made may have its 
assessment or adjustment redetermined by the Dane County circuit court if, within 
30 days after notice of assessment or adjustment is mailed provided to the company 
under s. 76.07 (3), an action for the redetermination is commenced by filing a 
summons and complaint with that court, and service of authenticated copies of the 
summons and complaint is made upon the department of revenue.  No answer need 
be filed by the department and the allegations of the complaint in opposition to the 
assessment or adjustment shall be deemed denied.  Upon the filing of the summons 
and complaint, the court shall set the matter for hearing without a jury.  If the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 969 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1442
plaintiff fails to file the summons and complaint within 5 days of service upon the 
department, the department may file a copy thereof with the court in lieu of the 
original.  The department may be named as the defendant in any such action and 
shall appear and be represented by its counsel in all proceedings connected with the 
action but, on the request of the secretary of revenue, the attorney general may 
participate with or serve in lieu of departmental counsel.  In an action for 
redetermination of an adjustment, only the issues raised in the department [s 
adjustment under s. 76.075 may be raised.
SECTION  1443 .  76.10 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
76.10 (1)  Every company defined in s. 76.02 shall, on or before October 1 in 
each year, be entitled, on its own motion, to present evidence before the department 
relating to the state assessment made in the preceding year pursuant to s. 70.575.  
On written request, in writing, for such the hearing or presentation, the 
department shall fix a time therefor within 60 days after such the application is 
filed, the same to be conducted in such manner as the department directs.  Notice of 
such the hearing shall be mailed provided to any company requesting a hearing and 
shall be published in the official state paper.  Within 30 days after the conclusion of 
such the hearing, the department shall enter an order either affirming the state 
assessment or ordering correction thereof as provided in sub. (2).  A copy of such the 
order shall be sent by certified mail provided to the company or companies 
requesting such the hearing and to any interested party who has made an 
appearance in such the proceeding.  The department may, on its own motion, 
correct such the state assessment.  Any company having filed application for review 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 970 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1443
of the state assessment pursuant to this section, or any other interested party 
participating in such the hearing, if aggrieved by the order entered by the 
department, may bring an action in the circuit court for Dane County within 30 
days after the entry of such the order to have said order set aside and a 
redetermination made of the state assessment.  In any such action or in any hearing 
before the department pursuant to this section, any interested party may appear 
and be heard.  An interested party includes any division of government whose 
revenues would be affected by any adjustment of the state assessment.
SECTION  1444 .  76.13 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
76.13 (2)  Every tax roll upon completion shall be delivered to the secretary of 
administration.  The department shall notify, by certified mail, all companies listed 
on the tax roll of the amount of tax due, which shall be paid to the department.  The 
payment dates provided for in sub. (2a) shall apply.  The payment of one-fourth of 
the tax of any company may, if the company has brought an action in the Dane 
County circuit court under s. 76.08, be made without delinquent interest as 
provided in s. 76.14 any time prior to the date upon which the appeal becomes final, 
but any part of the tax ultimately required to be paid shall bear interest from the 
original due date to the date the appeal became final at the rate of 12 percent per 
year and at 1.5 percent per month thereafter until paid.  The taxes extended 
against any company after the same become due, with interest, shall be a lien upon 
all the property of the company prior to all other liens, claims, and demands 
whatsoever, except as provided in ss. 292.31 (8) (i) and 292.81, which and the lien 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 971 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1444
may be enforced in an action in the name of the state in any court of competent 
jurisdiction against the property of the company within the state as an entirety.
SECTION  1445 .  76.15 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
76.15 (2)  The power to reassess the property of any company defined in s. 
76.02 and the general property of the state, and to redetermine the average rate of 
taxation, may be exercised under sub. (1) as often as may be necessary until the 
amount of taxes legally due from any such company for any year under ss. 76.01 to 
76.26 has been finally and definitely determined.  Whenever any sum or part 
thereof, levied upon any property subject to taxation under ss. 76.01 to 76.26 so set 
aside has been paid and not refunded, the payment so made shall be applied upon 
the reassessment upon the property, and the reassessment of taxes to that extent 
shall be deemed to be satisfied.  When the tax roll on the reassessment is completed 
and delivered to the secretary of administration, the department shall immediately 
notify by certified mail each of the several companies taxed to pay the amount of the 
taxes extended on the tax roll within 30 days.
SECTION  1446 .  76.639 (1) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
76.639 (1) (g)  XQualified development Y means a qualified low-income housing 
project under section 42 (g) of the Internal Revenue Code that is financed with tax-
exempt bonds, pursuant to section 42 (i) (2) described in section 42 (h) (4) (A) of the 
Internal Revenue Code, allocated the credit under section 42 of the Internal 
Revenue Code, and located in this state; except that the authority may waive, in the 
qualified allocation plan under section 42 (m) (1) (B) of the Internal Revenue Code, 
the requirements of tax-exempt bond financing and federal credit allocation to the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 972 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1446
extent the authority anticipates that sufficient volume cap under section 146 of the 
Internal Revenue Code will not be available to finance low-income housing projects 
in any year.
SECTION  1447 .  76.81 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
76.81 (1)  Except as provided in sub. (2), there is imposed a tax on the real 
property of, and the tangible personal property of, every telephone company, 
excluding property that is exempt from the property tax under s. 70.11 (39) and 
(39m), and (48), motor vehicles that are exempt under s. 70.112 (5), property that is 
used less than 50 percent in the operation of a telephone company, as provided 
under s. 70.112 (4) (b), treatment plant and pollution abatement equipment that is 
exempt under s. 70.11 (21), and qualified broadband service property.  Except as 
provided in s. 76.815, the rate for the tax imposed on each description of real 
property and on each item of tangible personal property is the net rate for the prior 
year for the tax under ch. 70 in the taxing jurisdictions where the description or 
item is located.  The real and tangible personal property of a telephone company 
shall be assessed as provided under s. 70.112 (4) (b).
SECTION  1448 .  Chapter 77 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
CHAPTER 77 
TAXATION OF FOREST CROPLANDS; 
 REAL ESTATE TRANSFER FEES; 
 SALES AND USE TAXES; COUNTY, 
 MUNICIPALITY, TRANSIT AUTHORITY, 
 AND SPECIAL DISTRICT SALES AND 
 USE TAXES; MANAGED FOREST LAND; 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 973 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1448
 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SURCHARGE; 
 LOCAL FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX; 
 LOCAL RENTAL CAR TAX; PREMIER 
 RESORT AREA TAXES; STATE RENTAL 
 VEHICLE FEE; DRY CLEANING FEES; 
 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING TAX; 
 REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY FEES
SECTION  1449 .  77.25 (8m) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.25 (8m)   Between husband and wife spouses.
SECTION  1450 .  77.51 (3h) of the statutes is created to read:
77.51 (3h)  XDiaperY means an absorbent garment worn by humans who are 
incapable of or have difficulty controlling their bladder or bowel movements.
SECTION  1451 .  77.51 (3pq) of the statutes is created to read:
77.51 (3pq)   XFeminine hygiene products Y means tampons, panty liners, 
menstrual cups, sanitary napkins, and other similar tangible personal property 
designed for feminine hygiene in connection with the human menstrual cycle.  
XFeminine hygiene products Y do not include grooming and hygiene products.
SECTION  1452 .  77.51 (4f) of the statutes is created to read:
77.51 (4f)  XGrooming and hygiene products Y means soaps and cleaning 
solutions, shampoo, toothpaste, mouthwash, antiperspirants, and suntan lotions 
and screens.
SECTION  1453 .  77.51 (9rm) of the statutes is created to read:
77.51 (9rm)   XOver-the-counter-drug Y means a drug that contains a label that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 974 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1453
identifies the product as a drug as required by 21 CFR 201.66, including a label that 
includes any of the following:
(a)  A drug facts panel.
(b)  A statement of the active ingredients with a list of those ingredients 
contained in the compound, substance, or preparation.
SECTION  1454 .  77.51 (11d) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.51 (11d)   For purposes of subs. (1ag), (1f), (3pf), (7j), and (9p), and (17g) and 
ss. 77.52 (20) and (21), 77.522, 77.54 (9g), (51), (52), and (60), and 77.59 (5r), 
XproductY includes tangible personal property, and items, property, and goods 
under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), and (d), and services.
SECTION  1455 .  77.51 (17g) of the statutes is created to read:
77.51 (17g)   XSeparate and optional fee Y means a fee charged to receive a 
distinct and identifiable product if either of the following applies:
(a)  The fee is in addition to fees that the seller charges for other distinct and 
identifiable products sold to the same buyer, the fee is separately set forth on the 
invoice given by the seller to the buyer, and the seller does not require the buyer to 
pay the fee if the buyer chooses not to receive the additional distinct and identifiable 
product for which the fee applies.
(b)  The seller charges a single amount for multiple distinct and identifiable 
products and offers the buyer the option of paying a lower amount if the buyer 
chooses not to receive one or more of the distinct and identifiable products.  For 
purposes of this paragraph, the separate and optional fee is the single amount the 
seller charges for the multiple distinct and identifiable products less the reduced 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 975 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1455
amount the seller charges to the buyer because the buyer chooses not to receive one 
or more of the products.
SECTION  1456 .  77.52 (2) (a) 20. of the statutes is amended to read:
77.52 (2) (a) 20.  The sale of landscaping and lawn maintenance services 
including landscape planning and counseling, lawn and garden services such as 
planting, mowing, spraying and fertilizing, and shrub and tree services.  For 
purposes of this subdivision, landscaping and lawn maintenance services do not 
include planning and counseling services for the restoration, reclamation, or 
revitalization of prairie, savanna, or wetlands to improve biodiversity, the quality of 
land, soils, or water, or other ecosystem functions if the planning and counseling 
services are provided for a separate and optional fee from any other services.
SECTION  1457 .  77.52 (2m) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.52 (2m)  (a)  With respect to the services subject to tax under sub. (2), no 
part of the charge for the service may be deemed a sale or rental of tangible 
personal property or items, property, or goods under sub. (1) (b), (c), or (d) if the 
property, items, or goods transferred by the service provider are incidental to the 
selling, performing or furnishing of the service, except as provided in par. pars. (b) 
and (c).
SECTION  1458 .  77.52 (2m) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
77.52 (2m)  (c)  With respect to services subject to tax under sub. (2) (a) 7., 10., 
11., and 20. that are provided for a separate and optional fee from the planning and 
counseling services described under sub. (2) (a) 20., all tangible personal property 
or items, property, or goods under sub. (1) (b), (c), or (d) physically transferred, or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 976 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1458
transferred electronically, to the customer in conjunction with the provision of the 
services subject to tax under sub. (2) (a) 7., 10., 11., and 20. is a sale of tangible 
personal property or items, property, or goods separate from the selling, 
performing, or furnishing of the services.
SECTION  1459 .  77.52 (13) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.52 (13)  For the purpose of the proper administration of this section and to 
prevent evasion of the sales tax it shall be presumed that all receipts are subject to 
the tax until the contrary is established.  The burden of proving that a sale of 
tangible personal property, or items, property, or goods under sub. (1) (b), (c), or (d), 
or services is not a taxable sale at retail is upon the person who makes the sale 
unless that person takes from the purchaser an electronic or a paper certificate, in 
a manner prescribed by the department, to the effect that the property, item, good, 
or service is purchased for resale or is otherwise exempt, except that no certificate is 
required for the sale of tangible personal property, or items, property, or goods 
under sub. (1) (b), (c), or (d), or services that are exempt under s. 77.54 (5) (a) 3., (7), 
(7m), (8), (10), (11), (14), (15), (17), (20n), (21), (22b), (31), (32), (35), (36), (37), (42), 
(44), (45), (46), (51), (52), (64), (66), (67), (71), and (72), (76), (77), and (78).
SECTION  1460 .  77.53 (10) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.53 (10)  For the purpose of the proper administration of this section and to 
prevent evasion of the use tax and the duty to collect the use tax, it is presumed 
that tangible personal property, or items, property, or goods under s. 77.52 (1) (b), 
(c), or (d), or taxable services sold by any person for delivery in this state is sold for 
storage, use, or other consumption in this state until the contrary is established.  
The burden of proving the contrary is upon the person who makes the sale unless 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 977 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1460
that person takes from the purchaser an electronic or paper certificate, in a manner 
prescribed by the department, to the effect that the property, or items, property, or 
goods under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), or (d), or taxable service is purchased for resale, or 
otherwise exempt from the tax, except that no certificate is required for the sale of 
tangible personal property, or items, property, or goods under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), or 
(d), or services that are exempt under s. 77.54 (7), (7m), (8), (10), (11), (14), (15), (17), 
(20n), (21), (22b), (31), (32), (35), (36), (37), (42), (44), (45), (46), (51), (52), (64), (66), 
(67), (71), and (72), (76), (77), and (78).
SECTION  1461 .  77.54 (7) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
77.54 (7) (b) 1.  The item is transferred to a child, spouse, parent, father-in-
law, mother-in-law parent-in-law, daughter-in-law, or son-in-law of the transferor 
or, if the item is a motor vehicle, from the transferor to a corporation owned solely by 
the transferor or by the transferor [s spouse.
SECTION  1462 .  77.54 (9a) (er) of the statutes is created to read:
77.54 (9a) (er)  Any transit authority created under s. 66.1039.
SECTION  1463 .  77.54 (14) (f) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1464 .  77.54 (14) (f) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
77.54 (14) (f) 4.  An advanced practice registered nurse who may issue 
prescription orders under s. 441.09 (2).
SECTION  1465 .  77.54 (14) (g) of the statutes is created to read:
77.54 (14) (g)  Over-the-counter-drugs.
SECTION  1466 .  77.54 (30) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
77.54 (30) (a) 2.  Electricity and natural gas sold during the months of 
November, December, January, February, March and April for residential use.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 978 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1467
SECTION  1467 .  77.54 (56) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1468 .  77.54 (56) (ad) of the statutes is created to read:
77.54 (56) (ad) 1.  The sales price from the sale of and the storage, use, or other 
consumption of a solar power system or wind energy system that produces usable 
electrical or heat energy directly from the sun or wind, if the system is capable of 
continuously producing at least 200 watts of alternating current or 600 British 
thermal units.  A solar power system or wind energy system described under this 
subdivision includes tangible personal property sold with the system that is used 
primarily to store or facilitate the storage of the electrical or heat energy produced 
by the system, but does not include an uninterruptible power source that is 
designed primarily for computers.  The exemption under this subdivision does not 
apply to tangible personal property designed for any use other than for a solar 
power system or wind energy system described in this subdivision.
2.  The sales price from the sale of and the storage, use, or other consumption 
of a waste energy system that produces usable electrical or heat energy directly 
from gas generated from anaerobic digestion of animal manure and other 
agricultural waste if the system is capable of continuously producing at least 200 
watts of alternating current or 600 British thermal units.  A system described 
under this subdivision includes tangible personal property sold with the system 
that is used primarily to store or facilitate the storage of the electrical or heat 
energy produced by the system, but does not include an uninterruptible power 
source that is designed primarily for computers.  The exemption under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 979 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1468
subdivision does not apply to tangible personal property designed for any use other 
than for a waste energy system described in this subdivision.
SECTION  1469 .  77.54 (56) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.54 (56) (b)  Except for the sale of electricity or energy that is exempt from 
taxation under sub. (30), beginning on July 1, 2011, the sales price from the sale of 
and the storage, use, or other consumption of electricity or heat energy produced by 
a product system described under par. (a) (ad).
SECTION  1470 .  77.54 (62) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1471 .  77.54 (75) of the statutes is created to read:
77.54 (75)  The sales price from the sale of and the storage, use, or other 
consumption of usable marijuana, as defined in s. 139.97 (13), purchased by an 
individual who holds a valid certificate issued under s. 73.17 (4).
SECTION  1472 .  77.54 (76) of the statutes is created to read:
77.54 (76) (a)  The sales price from the sale of and the storage, use, or other 
consumption of gun safes that are specifically designed for the storage of guns, but 
not other items used for gun storage, such as locking gun cabinets and racks.
(b)  The sales price from the sale of and the storage, use, or other consumption 
of trigger locks and gun barrel locks.
SECTION  1473 .  77.54 (77) of the statutes is created to read:
77.54 (77)  The sales price from the sale of and the storage, use, or other 
consumption of breast pumps, breast pump kits, and breast pump storage and 
collection supplies.
SECTION  1474 .  77.54 (78) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 980 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1474
77.54 (78)  The sales price from the sale of and the storage, use, or other 
consumption of diapers and feminine hygiene products.
SECTION  1475 .  Subchapter V (title) of chapter 77 [precedes 77.70] of the 
statutes is amended to read:
CHAPTER 77
SUBCHAPTER V 
COUNTY, MUNICIPALITY, TRANSIT  
 AUTHORITY, AND SPECIAL DISTRICT 
 SALES AND USE TAXES
SECTION  1476 .  77.70 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.70 (1)  Except as provided in sub. (2), any county may impose county sales 
and use taxes under this subchapter by the adoption of an ordinance, stating its 
purpose and referring to this subchapter.  The rate of the tax imposed under this 
subsection is 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, or 0.5 percent of the sales price or purchase price.  
Except as provided in s. 66.0621 (3m), the county sales and use taxes imposed under 
this subsection may be imposed only for the purpose of directly reducing the 
property tax levy and only in their entirety as provided in this subchapter.  That 
ordinance shall be effective on January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1.  A certified 
copy of that ordinance shall be delivered to the secretary of revenue at least 120 
days prior to its effective date.  The repeal of any such ordinance shall be effective on 
December 31.  A certified copy of a repeal ordinance shall be delivered to the 
secretary of revenue at least 120 days before the effective date of the repeal.  Except 
as provided under s. 77.60 (9), the department of revenue may not issue any 
assessment or act on any claim for a refund or any claim for an adjustment under s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 981 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1476
77.585 after the end of the calendar year that is 4 years after the year in which the 
county has enacted a repeal ordinance under this subsection.
SECTION  1477 .  77.70 (3) of the statutes is created to read:
77.70 (3)  In addition to the taxes imposed under sub. (1), a county other than 
Milwaukee County may, by ordinance, impose a sales and use tax under this 
subchapter at the rate of 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, or 0.5 percent of the sales price or 
purchase price.  A sales and use tax enacted under this subsection may not take 
effect unless approved by a majority vote of all qualified electors in the county 
voting on the issue at a referendum.  The revenue from the taxes imposed under this 
subsection may be used for any purpose designated by the county board or specified 
in the ordinance or in the referendum approving the ordinance.  The taxes imposed 
under this subsection may be imposed only in their entirety as provided in this 
subchapter.  If approved at a referendum, the ordinance shall be effective on 
January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1.  A certified copy of that ordinance shall be 
delivered to the secretary of revenue at least 120 days prior to its effective date.  The 
repeal of any such ordinance shall be effective on December 31.  A certified copy of 
a repeal ordinance shall be delivered to the secretary of revenue at least 120 days 
before the effective date of the repeal.  Except as provided under s. 77.60 (9), the 
department of revenue may not issue any assessment nor act on any claim for a 
refund or any claim for an adjustment under s. 77.585 after the end of the calendar 
year that is 4 years after the year in which the county has enacted a repeal 
ordinance under this subsection.
SECTION  1478 .  77.701 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 982 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1478
77.701   (title)  Adoption by municipal ordinance; 1st class cities.
SECTION  1479 .  77.702 of the statutes is created to read:
77.702   Adoption by municipal ordinance; generally.  A municipality 
other than the city of Milwaukee with a population exceeding 30,000, as determined 
by the 2020 federal decennial census or under s. 16.96 for 2020, may, by ordinance, 
impose a sales and use tax under this subchapter at the rate of 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, or 
0.5 percent of the sales price or purchase price.  A sales and use tax enacted under 
this subsection may not take effect unless approved by a majority vote of all 
qualified electors in the municipality voting on the issue at a referendum.  The 
revenue from the taxes imposed under this subsection may be used for any purpose 
designated by the governing body of the municipality or specified in the ordinance 
or in the referendum approving the ordinance.  The taxes imposed under this 
subsection may be imposed only in their entirety as provided in this subchapter.  If 
approved at a referendum, the ordinance shall be effective on January 1, April 1, 
July 1, or October 1.  A certified copy of that ordinance shall be delivered to the 
secretary of revenue at least 120 days prior to its effective date.  The repeal of any 
such ordinance shall be effective on December 31.  A certified copy of a repeal 
ordinance shall be delivered to the secretary of revenue at least 120 days before the 
effective date of the repeal.  Except as provided under s. 77.60 (9), the department of 
revenue may not issue any assessment nor act on any claim for a refund or any 
claim for an adjustment under s. 77.585 after the end of the calendar year that is 4 
years after the year in which the municipality has enacted a repeal ordinance under 
this subsection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 983 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1480
SECTION  1480 .  77.708 of the statutes is created to read:
77.708   Adoption by resolution; transit authority.   (1)  A transit 
authority created under s. 66.1039, by resolution under s. 66.1039 (4) (s), may 
impose a sales tax and a use tax under this subchapter at a rate not to exceed 0.5 
percent of the gross receipts or sales price.  Those taxes may be imposed only in 
their entirety.  The resolution shall be effective on the first day of the first calendar 
quarter that begins at least 120 days after a certified copy of the resolution is 
delivered to the department of revenue.
(2)  Retailers and the department of revenue may not collect a tax under sub. 
(1) for any transit authority created under s. 66.1039 beginning on the first day of 
the calendar quarter that is at least 120 days after a certified copy of the repeal 
resolution under s. 66.1039 (4) (s) is delivered to the department of revenue, except 
that the department of revenue may collect from retailers taxes that accrued before 
such calendar quarter and fees, interest, and penalties that relate to those taxes.
SECTION  1481 .  77.71 (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.71   Imposition of county, municipality, transit authority, and 
special district sales and use taxes.   (intro.)  Whenever a sales and use tax 
ordinance is adopted under s. 77.70 or, 77.701, or 77.702, a transit authority 
resolution is adopted under s. 77.708, or a special district resolution is adopted 
under s. 77.706, the following taxes are imposed:
SECTION  1482 .  77.71 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.71 (1)  For the privilege of selling, licensing, leasing, or renting tangible 
personal property and the items, property, and goods specified under s. 77.52 (1) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 984 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1482
(b), (c), and (d), and for the privilege of selling, licensing, performing, or furnishing 
services a sales tax is imposed upon retailers at the rates under s. 77.70 in the case 
of a county tax, at the rate under s. 77.701 or 77.702 in the case of a municipality 
tax, at the rate under s. 77.708 in the case of a transit authority tax, or at the rate 
under s. 77.706 in the case of a special district tax of the sales price from the sale, 
license, lease, or rental of tangible personal property and the items, property, and 
goods specified under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), and (d), except property taxed under sub. 
(4), sold, licensed, leased, or rented at retail in the county, municipality, or special 
district, or transit authority [s jurisdictional area, or from selling, licensing, 
performing, or furnishing services described under s. 77.52 (2) in the county, 
municipality, or special district, or transit authority [s jurisdictional area.
SECTION  1483 .  77.71 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.71 (2)  An excise tax is imposed at the rates under s. 77.70 in the case of a 
county tax, at the rate under s. 77.701 or 77.702 in the case of a municipality tax, at 
the rate under s. 77.708 in the case of a transit authority tax, or at the rate under s. 
77.706 in the case of a special district tax of the purchase price upon every person 
storing, using, or otherwise consuming in the county, municipality, or special 
district, or transit authority [s jurisdictional area tangible personal property, or 
items, property, or goods specified under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), or (d), or services if the 
tangible personal property, item, property, good, or service is subject to the state 
use tax under s. 77.53, except that a receipt indicating that the tax under sub. (1), 
(3), (4), or (5) has been paid relieves the buyer of liability for the tax under this 
subsection and except that if the buyer has paid a similar local tax in another state 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 985 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1483
on a purchase of the same tangible personal property, item, property, good, or 
service that tax shall be credited against the tax under this subsection and except 
that for motor vehicles that are used for a purpose in addition to retention, 
demonstration, or display while held for sale in the regular course of business by a 
dealer the tax under this subsection is imposed not on the purchase price but on the 
amount under s. 77.53 (1m).
SECTION  1484 .  77.71 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.71 (3)  An excise tax is imposed upon a contractor engaged in construction 
activities within the county or, special district, or transit authority [s jurisdictional 
area at the rates under s. 77.70 in the case of a county tax, at the rate under s. 
77.701 or 77.702 in the case of a municipality tax, at the rate under s. 77.708 in the 
case of a transit authority tax, or at the rate under s. 77.706 in the case of a special 
district tax of the purchase price of tangible personal property or items, property, or 
goods under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), or (d) that are used in constructing, altering, 
repairing, or improving real property and that became a component part of real 
property in that county, municipality, or special district, or in the transit 
authority [s jurisdictional area, except that if the contractor has paid the sales tax of 
a county, municipality, transit authority, or special district in this state on that 
tangible personal property, item, property, or good, or has paid a similar local sales 
tax in another state on a purchase of the same tangible personal property, item, 
property, or good, that tax shall be credited against the tax under this subsection.
SECTION  1485 .  77.71 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.71 (4)  An excise tax is imposed at the rates under s. 77.70 in the case of a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 986 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1485
county tax, at the rate under s. 77.701 or 77.702 in the case of a municipality tax, at 
the rate under s. 77.708 in the case of a transit authority tax, or at the rate under s. 
77.706 in the case of a special district tax of the purchase price upon every person 
storing, using, or otherwise consuming a motor vehicle, boat, recreational vehicle, 
as defined in s. 340.01 (48r), or aircraft if that property must be registered or titled 
with this state and if that property is to be customarily kept in a county that has in 
effect an ordinance under s. 77.70, in a municipality that has in effect an ordinance 
under s. 77.701 or 77.702, the jurisdictional area of a transit authority that has in 
effect a resolution under s. 77.708, or in a special district that has in effect a 
resolution under s. 77.706, except that if the buyer has paid a similar local sales tax 
in another state on a purchase of the same property, that tax shall be credited 
against the tax under this subsection.  The lease or rental of a motor vehicle, boat, 
recreational vehicle, as defined in s. 340.01 (48r), or aircraft is not taxed under this 
subsection if the lease or rental does not require recurring periodic payments.
SECTION  1486 .  77.71 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.71 (5)  An excise tax is imposed on the purchase price for the lease or rental 
of a motor vehicle, boat, recreational vehicle, as defined in s. 340.01 (48r), or aircraft 
at the rates under s. 77.70 in the case of a county tax, at the rate under s. 77.701 or 
77.702 in the case of a municipality tax, at the rate under s. 77.708 in the case of a 
transit authority tax, or at the rate under s. 77.706 in the case of a special district 
tax upon every person storing, using, or otherwise consuming in the county, 
municipality, or special district, or transit authority [s jurisdictional area the motor 
vehicle, boat, recreational vehicle, as defined in s. 340.01 (48r), or aircraft if that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 987 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1486
property must be registered or titled with this state and if the lease or rental does 
not require recurring periodic payments, except that a receipt indicating that the 
tax under sub. (1) had been paid relieves the purchaser of liability for the tax under 
this subsection and except that if the purchaser has paid a similar local tax in 
another state on the same lease or rental of such motor vehicle, boat, recreational 
vehicle, as defined in s. 340.01 (48r), or aircraft, that tax shall be credited against 
the tax under this subsection.
SECTION  1487 .  77.73 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.73 (2)  Counties, municipalities, and special districts, and transit 
authorities do not have jurisdiction to impose the tax under s. 77.71 (2) in regard to 
items, property, and goods under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), and (d), and tangible personal 
property, except snowmobiles, trailers, semitrailers, limited use off-highway 
motorcycles, as defined in s. 23.335 (1) (o), all-terrain vehicles, and utility terrain 
vehicles, purchased in a sale that is consummated in another county, municipality, 
or special district in this state, or in another transit authority [s jurisdictional area, 
that does not have in effect an ordinance or resolution imposing the taxes under this 
subchapter and later brought by the buyer into the county, municipality, or special 
district, or jurisdictional area of the transit authority that has imposed a tax under 
s. 77.71 (2).
SECTION  1488 .  77.73 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.73 (2m)   Counties, municipalities, and special districts, and transit 
authorities do not have jurisdiction to impose the tax under s. 77.71 (5) with regard 
to the lease or rental of a motor vehicle, boat, recreational vehicle, as defined in s. 
340.01 (48r), or aircraft if the lease or rental does not require recurring periodic 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 988 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1488
payments and if the purchaser received the property in another county, 
municipality, or special district in this state or in another transit authority [s 
jurisdictional area, and then brings the property into a county, municipality, or 
special district, or transit authority that imposes the tax under s. 77.71 (5).
SECTION  1489 .  77.73 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.73 (3)  Counties, municipalities, and special districts, and transit 
authorities have jurisdiction to impose the taxes under this subchapter on retailers 
who file, or who are required to file, an application under s. 77.52 (7) or who 
register, or who are required to register, under s. 77.53 (9) or (9m), regardless of 
whether such retailers are engaged in business in the county, municipality, or 
special district, or transit authority [s jurisdictional area, as provided in s. 77.51 
(13g).  A retailer who files, or is required to file, an application under s. 77.52 (7) or 
who registers, or is required to register, under s. 77.53 (9) or (9m) shall collect, 
report, and remit to the department the taxes imposed under this subchapter for all 
counties, municipalities, or special districts, or transit authorities that have an 
ordinance or resolution imposing the taxes under this subchapter.
SECTION  1490 .  77.75 of the statutes is amended to read:
77.75   Reports.   Every person subject to county, municipality, transit 
authority, or special district sales and use taxes shall, for each reporting period, 
record that person [s sales made in the county, municipality, or special district, or 
jurisdictional area of a transit authority that has imposed those taxes separately 
from sales made elsewhere in this state and file a report as prescribed by the 
department of revenue.
SECTION  1491 .  77.76 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 989 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1491
77.76 (1)  The department of revenue shall have full power to levy, enforce, 
and collect county, municipality, transit authority, and special district sales and use 
taxes and may take any action, conduct any proceeding, impose interest and 
penalties, and in all respects proceed as it is authorized to proceed for the taxes 
imposed by subch. III.  The department of transportation and the department of 
natural resources may administer the county, municipality, transit authority, and 
special district sales and use taxes in regard to items under s. 77.61 (1).
SECTION  1492 .  77.76 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.76 (2)  Judicial and administrative review of departmental determinations 
shall be as provided in subch. III for state sales and use taxes, and no county, 
municipality, transit authority, or special district may intervene in any matter 
related to the levy, enforcement, and collection of the taxes under this subchapter.
SECTION  1493 .  77.76 (3t) of the statutes is created to read:
77.76 (3t)  From the appropriation under s. 20.835 (4) (gj), the department 
shall distribute 99.25 percent of the municipality taxes reported for each enacting 
municipality, minus the municipality portion of the retailers [ discounts, to the 
municipality and shall indicate the taxes reported by each taxpayer, no later than 
75 days following the last day of the calendar quarter in which such amounts were 
reported.  In this subsection, the Xmunicipality portion of the retailers [ discount Y is 
the amount determined by multiplying the total retailers [ discount by a fraction the 
numerator of which is the gross municipality sales and use taxes payable and the 
denominator of which is the sum of the gross state and municipality sales and use 
taxes payable.  The municipality taxes distributed shall be increased or decreased 
to reflect subsequent refunds, audit adjustments, and all other adjustments of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 990 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1493
municipality taxes previously distributed.  Interest paid on refunds of municipality 
sales and use taxes shall be paid from the appropriation under s. 20.835 (4) (gj) at 
the rate paid by this state under s. 77.60 (1) (a).  Any municipality receiving a report 
under this subsection is subject to the duties of confidentiality to which the 
department of revenue is subject under s. 77.61 (5) and (6).
SECTION  1494 .  77.76 (3w) of the statutes is created to read:
77.76 (3w)   From the appropriation under s. 20.835 (4) (gc), the department of 
revenue shall distribute 98.5 percent of the taxes reported for each transit 
authority that has imposed taxes under this subchapter, minus the transit 
authority portion of the retailers [ discount, to the transit authority no later than 
the end of the 3rd month following the end of the calendar quarter in which such 
amounts were reported.  At the time of distribution, the department of revenue 
shall indicate the taxes reported by each taxpayer.  In this subsection, the Xtransit 
authority portion of the retailers [ discount Y is the amount determined by 
multiplying the total retailers [ discount by a fraction the numerator of which is the 
gross transit authority sales and use taxes payable and the denominator of which is 
the sum of the gross state and transit authority sales and use taxes payable.  The 
transit authority taxes distributed shall be increased or decreased to reflect 
subsequent refunds, audit adjustments, and all other adjustments of the transit 
authority taxes previously distributed.  Interest paid on refunds of transit 
authority sales and use taxes shall be paid from the appropriation under s. 20.835 
(4) (gc) at the rate paid by this state under s. 77.60 (1) (a).  Any transit authority 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 991 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1494
receiving a report under this subsection is subject to the duties of confidentiality to 
which the department of revenue is subject under s. 77.61 (5).
SECTION  1495 .  77.76 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.76 (4)  There shall be retained by the state 1.5 percent of the taxes collected 
for taxes imposed by special districts under s. 77.706 and transit authorities under 
s. 77.708, 0.75 percent of the taxes collected for taxes imposed by counties under s. 
77.70, and 1.75 percent of the taxes collected for taxes imposed by municipalities 
under s. 77.701 to cover costs incurred by the state in administering, enforcing, and 
collecting the tax.  All interest and penalties collected shall be deposited and 
retained by this state in the general fund.
SECTION  1496 .  77.76 (4m) of the statutes is created to read:
77.76 (4m)   There shall be retained by the state 0.75 percent of the taxes 
collected for taxes imposed by municipalities under s. 77.702 to cover the costs 
incurred by the state in administering, enforcing, and collecting the tax.  All 
interest and penalties collected shall be deposited and retained by this state in the 
general fund.
SECTION  1497 .  77.76 (7) of the statutes is created to read:
77.76 (7)  If a retailer receives notice from the department of revenue that the 
retailer is required to collect and remit the taxes imposed under s. 77.708, but the 
retailer believes that the retailer is not required to collect such taxes because the 
retailer is not doing business within the transit authority [s jurisdictional area, the 
retailer shall notify the department of revenue no later than 30 days after receiving 
notice from the department.  The department of revenue shall affirm or revise its 
original determination no later than 30 days after receiving the retailer [s notice.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 992 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1498
SECTION  1498 .  77.77 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.77 (1) (a)  The sales price from services subject to the tax under s. 77.52 (2) 
or the lease, rental, or license of tangible personal property and property, items, 
and goods specified under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), and (d), is subject to the taxes under 
this subchapter, and the incremental amount of tax caused by a rate increase 
applicable to those services, leases, rentals, or licenses is due, beginning with the 
first billing period starting on or after the effective date of the county ordinance, 
municipal ordinance, special district resolution, transit authority resolution, or 
rate increase, regardless of whether the service is furnished or the property, item, 
or good is leased, rented, or licensed to the customer before or after that date.
SECTION  1499 .  77.77 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.77 (1) (b)  The sales price from services subject to the tax under s. 77.52 (2) 
or the lease, rental, or license of tangible personal property and property, items, 
and goods specified under s. 77.52 (1) (b), (c), and (d) is not subject to the taxes 
under this subchapter, and a decrease in the tax rate imposed under this 
subchapter on those services first applies, beginning with bills rendered on or after 
the effective date of the repeal or sunset of a county ordinance, municipal ordinance, 
or special district resolution, or transit authority resolution imposing the tax or 
other rate decrease, regardless of whether the service is furnished or the property, 
item, or good is leased, rented, or licensed to the customer before or after that date.
SECTION  1500 .  77.77 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.77 (3)  The sale of building materials to contractors engaged in the 
business of constructing, altering, repairing or improving real estate for others is 
not subject to the taxes under this subchapter, and the incremental amount of tax 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 993 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1500
caused by the rate increase applicable to those materials is not due, if the materials 
are affixed and made a structural part of real estate, and the amount payable to the 
contractor is fixed without regard to the costs incurred in performing a written 
contract that was irrevocably entered into prior to the effective date of the county 
ordinance, municipal ordinance, special district resolution, transit authority 
resolution, or rate increase or that resulted from the acceptance of a formal written 
bid accompanied by a bond or other performance guaranty that was irrevocably 
submitted before that date.
SECTION  1501 .  77.78 of the statutes is amended to read:
77.78   Registration.   No motor vehicle, boat, snowmobile, recreational 
vehicle, as defined in s. 340.01 (48r), trailer, semitrailer, all-terrain vehicle, utility 
terrain vehicle, off-highway motorcycle, as defined in s. 23.335 (1) (q), or aircraft 
that is required to be registered by this state may be registered or titled by this state 
unless the registrant files a sales and use tax report and pays the county tax, 
municipal tax, transit authority tax, and special district tax at the time of 
registering or titling to the state agency that registers or titles the property.  That 
state agency shall transmit those tax revenues to the department of revenue.
SECTION  1502 .  77.88 (2) (ac) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
77.88 (2) (ac) 1.  If the land transferred under par. (a) meets the eligibility 
requirements under s. 77.82 (1) (a), (ag), and (b), the land shall continue to be 
designated as managed forest land if the transferee, within 30 days after a transfer 
of ownership, files a form provided by the department signed by the transferee.  By 
signing the form, the transferee certifies to the department an intent to comply 
with the existing management plan for the land and any amendments to the plan.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 994 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1502
The transferee shall provide proof that each person holding any encumbrance on 
the land agrees to the designation.  The transferee may designate an area of the 
transferred land closed to public access as provided under s. 77.83.  The department 
shall issue an order continuing the designation of the land as managed forest land 
under the new ownership.  The transferee shall pay a $100 fee that will accompany 
the report.  The fee shall be deposited in the conservation fund.  Twenty dollars of 
the fee or a different amount of the fee as may be established under subd. 2. shall be 
and credited to the appropriation under s. 20.370 (2) (cr).  The department shall 
immediately notify each person entitled to notice under s. 77.82 (8).
SECTION  1503 .  77.88 (5m) of the statutes is amended to read:
77.88 (5m)   W ITHDRAWAL  FEE.  The withdrawal fee assessed by the 
department under subs. (1) (c), (2) (ac) 2. and 3., (am), and (c), (3), and (3j) (c), and 
(3m) shall be $300.  The fee shall be deposited in the conservation fund and credited 
to the appropriation under s. 20.370 (2) (cr).
SECTION  1504 .  Subchapter XIV of chapter 77 [precedes 77.9981] of the 
statutes is created to read:
CHAPTER 77
SUBCHAPTER XIV 
REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY FEE
77.9981  Imposition.   A regional transit authority created under s. 66.1039 
(2) may impose a fee at a rate not to exceed $2 for each transaction in the authority [s 
jurisdictional area, as described in s. 66.1039 (2), on the rental, but not for rerental 
and not for rental as a service or repair replacement vehicle, of Type 1 automobiles, 
as defined in s. 340.01 (4) (a), by establishments primarily engaged in short-term 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 995 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1504
rental of passenger cars without drivers, for a period of 30 days or less, unless the 
sale is exempt from the sales tax under s. 77.54 (1), (4), (7) (a), (7m), (9), or (9a).  The 
fee imposed under this subchapter shall be effective on the first day of the first 
month that begins at least 90 days after the board of directors of the regional transit 
authority approves the imposition of the fee and notifies the department of revenue.  
The board of directors shall notify the department of a repeal of the fee imposed 
under this subchapter at least 60 days before the effective date of the repeal.
77.9982  Administration.   (1)  The department of revenue shall administer 
the fee under this subchapter and may take any action, conduct any proceeding, and 
impose interest and penalties.
(2)  Sections 77.51 (12m), (14), (14g), (15a), and (15b), 77.52 (1b), (3), (5), (13), 
(14), (18), and (19), 77.522, 77.58 (1) to (5), (6m), and (7), 77.585, 77.59, 77.60, 77.61 
(2), (3m), (5), (8), (9), and (12) to (15), and 77.62, as they apply to the taxes under 
subch. III, apply to the fee under this subchapter. Section 77.73, as it applies to the 
taxes under subch. V, applies to the fee under this subchapter.  The renter shall 
collect the fee under this subchapter from the person to whom the passenger car is 
rented.
(3)  From the appropriation under s. 20.835 (4) (gh), the department of 
revenue shall distribute 97.45 percent of the fees collected under this subchapter for 
each regional transit authority to that authority and shall indicate to the authority 
the fees reported by each fee payer in the authority [s jurisdiction, no later than the 
end of the month following the end of the calendar quarter in which the amounts 
were collected.  The fees distributed shall be increased or decreased to reflect 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 996 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1504
subsequent refunds, audit adjustments, and all other adjustments.  Interest paid on 
refunds of the fee under this subchapter shall be paid from the appropriation under 
s. 20.835 (4) (gh) at the rate under s. 77.60 (1) (a).  Any regional transit authority 
that receives a report along with a payment under this subsection is subject to the 
duties of confidentiality to which the department of revenue is subject under s. 
77.61 (5).
(4)  Persons who are subject to the fee under this subchapter shall register 
with the department of revenue.  Any person who is required to register; including 
any person authorized to act on behalf of a corporation, partnership, or other person 
who is required to register; who fails to do so is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(5)  A retailer who collects a fee under this subchapter shall identify the fee as 
a separate item on a receipt the retailer provides to a rental customer.
77.9983  Discontinuation.   Retailers and the department of revenue may not 
collect fees under this subchapter for any regional transit authority after the 
calendar quarter during which the regional transit authority ceases to exist, except 
that the department may collect from retailers fees that accrued before that 
calendar quarter and interest and penalties that relate to those fees.  If fees are 
collected, the authority may use the revenue for any lawful purpose.
SECTION  1505 .  79.005 (1j) of the statutes is created to read:
79.005 (1j) (a)  XEnergy storage facility Y means property to which all of the 
following applies:
1.  The property is interconnected to the electrical grid.
2.  The property is designed to receive electrical energy, to store the electrical 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 997 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1505
energy as another form of energy, and to convert that other form back into electrical 
energy.
3.  The property delivers the electrical energy converted from some other form, 
as described in subd. 2., for sale or to use for providing reliability or economic 
benefits to the electrical grid.
4.  The property is owned by a light, heat, and power company assessed under 
s. 76.28 (2) or 76.29 (2), not including property described in s. 66.0813 unless the 
property is owned or operated by a local governmental unit located outside of the 
municipality, or by an electric cooperative assessed under ss. 76.07 and 76.48, 
respectively, or by a municipal electric company under s. 66.0825.
(b)  XEnergy storage facility Y includes hydroelectric pumped storage, 
compressed air energy storage, regenerative fuel cells, batteries, superconducting 
magnetic energy storage, flywheels, thermal energy storage systems, and hydrogen 
storage, or combination thereof, or any other similar technologies as determined by 
the federal energy regulatory commission.
SECTION  1506 .  79.005 (1L) of the statutes is created to read:
79.005 (1L)  XLiquefied natural gas storage facility Y means a liquefied natural 
gas storage facility owned by a light, heat, and power company assessed under s. 
76.28 (2) or 76.29 (2), not including property described in s. 66.0813, unless the 
property is owned or operated by a local governmental unit located outside of the 
municipality, by an electric cooperative assessed under ss. 76.07 and 76.48, 
respectively, or by a municipal electric company under s. 66.0825.
SECTION  1507 .  79.015 of the statutes is amended to read:
79.015   Statement of estimated payments.   The department of revenue, on 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 998 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1507
or before September 15 of each year, shall provide to each municipality and county 
a statement of estimated payments to be made in the next calendar year to the 
municipality or county under ss. 79.035, 79.036, 79.037, 79.038, 79.039, 79.04, and 
79.05 and shall provide a statement of estimated payments to be made to the 
municipality or county under s. 79.06 if the municipality or county is eligible for a 
payment under s. 79.06 in the next calendar year.
SECTION  1508 .  79.036 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
79.036 (1) (intro.)  Except as provided in subs. (2), (3), and (4), and (5), for the 
distribution in 2024 and in subsequent years, each county and municipality shall 
receive payments under this section as follows:
SECTION  1509 .  79.036 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
79.036 (1) (b)  For the distribution in 2025 and subsequent years, each county 
and municipality shall receive a payment equal to the proportion of the total 
payments from the county and municipal aid account under s. 25.491 (2) (a) that 
the county or municipality received in 2024 multiplied by the amount credited 
under s. 25.491 (2) (a) for the year in to the county and municipal aid account under 
s. 25.491 (2).
SECTION  1510 .  79.036 (5) of the statutes is created to read:
79.036 (5)  For the distribution in 2025, the payment under this section to the 
city of Green Bay shall be the amount otherwise determined for the city under this 
section, plus $1,000,000 for reimbursement of public safety costs associated with 
the national football league draft in April 2025.
SECTION  1511 .  79.04 (7m) of the statutes is created to read:
79.04 (7m)  (a)  Annually, the department of administration, upon certification 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 999 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1511
by the department of revenue, shall distribute a payment from the public utility 
account to each municipality and county in which an energy storage facility with a 
name-plate capacity of at least one megawatt is located.  If the energy storage 
facility is located in a city or village, the city or village receives a payment equal to 
two-thirds of the product of the facility [s name-plate capacity multiplied by $2,000 
and the county in which the energy storage facility is located receives a payment 
equal to one-third of the product of the facility [s name-plate capacity multiplied by 
$2,000.  If the energy storage facility is located in a town, the town receives a 
payment equal to one-third of the product of the facility [s name-plate capacity 
multiplied by $2,000 and the county in which the energy storage facility is located 
receives a payment equal to two-thirds of the product of the facility [s name-plate 
capacity multiplied by $2,000.
(b)  Annually, the department of administration, upon certification by the 
department of revenue, shall distribute a payment from the public utility account to 
each municipality and county in which a liquefied natural gas storage facility is 
located.  If the liquefied natural gas storage facility is located in a city or village, the 
city or village receives a payment equal to 6 mills multiplied by the net book value 
of the liquefied natural gas storage facility and the county in which the liquefied 
natural gas storage facility is located receives a payment equal to 3 mills multiplied 
by the net book value of the liquefied natural gas storage facility.  If the liquefied 
natural gas storage facility is located in a town, the town receives a payment equal 
to 3 mills multiplied by the net book value of the liquefied natural gas storage 
facility and the county in which the liquefied natural gas storage facility is located 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1000 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1511
receives a payment equal to 6 mills multiplied by the net book value of the liquefied 
natural gas storage facility.
SECTION  1512 .  79.05 (1) (ae) of the statutes is created to read:
79.05 (1) (ae)  XGrowth portion of base and supplemental county and 
municipal aid Y means the total amount of payments received by a municipality 
under ss. 79.036 and 79.037 in the applicable year minus the total amount of 
payments under ss. 79.036 and 79.037 received by the municipality in 2024.
SECTION  1513 .  79.05 (1) (ag) of the statutes is created to read:
79.05 (1) (ag)  XGrowth portion of payments for municipal services Y means an 
amount equal to one of the following, whichever is greater:
1.  The total amount of payments received by a municipality under s. 70.119 
(7) in the applicable year minus the total amount of payments under s. 70.119 (7) 
received by the municipality in 2024.
2.  Zero.
SECTION  1514 .  79.05 (1) (am) of the statutes is amended to read:
79.05 (1) (am)  XInflation factor Y means a percentage equal to the average 
annual percentage change in the U.S. consumer price index for all urban 
consumers, U.S. city average, as determined by the U.S. department of labor, for the 
12 months ending on August 31 of the year before the statement under s. 79.015, 
except that the percentage under this paragraph shall not be less than zero 3 
percent.
SECTION  1515 .  79.05 (2) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
79.05 (2) (c)  Its municipal budget; exclusive of principal and interest on long-
term debt and exclusive of revenue sharing payments under s. 66.0305, payments of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1001 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1515
premiums under s. 66.0137 (5) (c) 1. and 1m., revenues generated from a tax 
imposed under s. 77.701, the growth portion of base and supplemental county and 
municipal aid, the growth portion of payments for municipal services, additional 
payments received under s. 79.036 (5) for public safety costs reimbursement, 
payments received under s. 79.038, expenditures of payments due to the 
termination of a tax incremental district under s. 79.096 (3), recycling fee payments 
under s. 289.645, expenditures of grant payments under s. 16.297 (1m), 
unreimbursed expenses related to an emergency declared under s. 323.10, 
expenditures from moneys received pursuant to P.L. 111-5, revenues from a 
municipal registration fee under s. 341.35 (1) that is approved by a majority of the 
electors in the municipality voting at a referendum, grants received from the state 
or federal government for the purpose of providing law enforcement, fire protection, 
or emergency medical services, grants received from the federal government, and 
expenditures made pursuant to a purchasing agreement with a school district 
whereby the municipality makes purchases on behalf of the school district; for the 
year of the statement under s. 79.015 increased over its municipal budget as 
adjusted under sub. (6); exclusive of principal and interest on long-term debt and 
exclusive of revenue sharing payments under s. 66.0305, payments of premiums 
under s. 66.0137 (5) (c) 1. and 1m., revenues generated from a tax imposed under s. 
77.701, the growth portion of base and supplemental county and municipal aid, the 
growth portion of payments for municipal services, additional payments received 
under s. 79.036 (5) for public safety costs reimbursement, payments received under 
s. 79.038, expenditures of payments due to the termination of a tax incremental 
district under s. 79.096 (3), recycling fee payments under s. 289.645, expenditures 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1002 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1515
of grant payments under s. 16.297 (1m), unreimbursed expenses related to an 
emergency declared under s. 323.10, expenditures from moneys received pursuant 
to P.L. 111-5, revenues from a municipal registration fee under s. 341.35 (1) that is 
approved by a majority of the electors in the municipality voting at a referendum, 
grants received from the state or federal government for the purpose of providing 
law enforcement, fire protection, or emergency medical services, grants received 
from the federal government, and expenditures made pursuant to a purchasing 
agreement with a school district whereby the municipality makes purchases on 
behalf of the school district; for the year before that year by less than the sum of the 
inflation factor and the valuation factor, rounded to the nearest 0.10 percent.
SECTION  1516 .  79.06 of the statutes is created to read:
79.06   Property tax freeze incentive payments.   (1)  In this section, 
Xpolitical subdivision Y means a city, village, town, or county.
(2) (a)  A political subdivision is eligible for a payment under sub. (3) if its 
property tax levy in a year is less than or equal to its property tax levy in the 
immediately preceding year.
(b)  For purposes of determining eligibility under par. (a), a political 
subdivision [s property tax levy excludes all of the following expenditures made by 
the political subdivision:
1.  Expenditures related to annexation or service consolidation.
2.  Unreimbursed emergency expenditures.
(3) (a)  Beginning in 2026, each political subdivision that is eligible under sub. 
(2) on the basis of its property tax levy imposed in the immediately preceding 
December shall receive a payment calculated as follows:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1003 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1516
1.  Multiply the political subdivision [s property tax levy for the year of the 
payment by 0.03.
2.  If the political subdivision received a payment under this subsection in the 
immediately preceding year, multiply the amount of the payment by 1.03.
3.  Add the amounts determined under subds. 1. and 2.
(b)  For purposes of calculating the amount of a payment under par. (a), a 
political subdivision [s property tax levy excludes all expenditures excluded under 
sub. (2) (b).
(c)  The department of revenue shall certify the amount of the payment due 
each taxing jurisdiction under par. (a) to the department of administration, and the 
department of administration shall make the payment on or before the first Monday 
in May.
(4)  The department of revenue may promulgate rules to implement this 
section.
SECTION  1517 .  79.07 of the statutes is created to read:
79.07   County and municipal aid for nontaxable tribal land.   (1)  
Beginning in 2026, the following counties and towns shall annually receive a 
payment in an amount determined by the department of revenue under sub. (2):
(a)  Ashland County.
(b)  Bayfield County.
(c)  Iron County.
(d)  Sawyer County.
(e)  Vilas County.
(f)  Town of Ashland.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1004 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1517
(g)  Town of Gingles.
(h)  Town of Sanborn.
(i)  Town of White River.
(j)  Town of Russell, located in Bayfield County.
(k)  Town of Sherman, located in Iron County.
(L)  Town of Bass Lake, located in Sawyer County.
(m)  Town of Couderay.
(n)  Town of Hayward.
(o)  Town of Radisson.
(p)  Town of Sand Lake, located in Sawyer County.
(q)  Town of Boulder Junction.
(r)  Town of Lac du Flambeau.
(2) (a)  The department of revenue shall annually determine the amount of the 
payment to each county and town under sub. (1) to compensate the county or town 
for the loss of property tax revenue as a result of not being able to legally impose 
local general property taxes on property located within the boundaries of an 
American Indian reservation and owned by the tribe or tribal members, consistent 
with the 1854 Treaty of La Pointe.
(b)  The department of revenue shall certify the amount of the payment due 
each county and town under sub. (1) to the department of administration, and the 
department of administration shall make the payment on or before the first Monday 
in May.
SECTION  1518 .  79.095 (4) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
79.095 (4) (c)  The department shall certify the amount of the payment due 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1005 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1518
each taxing jurisdiction to the department of administration, which shall make the 
payments on or before the 4th first Monday in July.  For purposes of ch. 121, school 
districts shall treat the payments made in July under this subsection as if they had 
been received in the previous school year May.
SECTION  1519 .  79.098 of the statutes is created to read:
79.098   State aid; state assessed pipelines.   (1)  Beginning in 2027, and in 
each year thereafter, the department of administration shall pay to each taxing 
jurisdiction, as defined in s. 79.095 (1) (c), an amount equal to the property taxes 
levied on the pipeline property of a pipeline company, as defined in s. 76.02 (5), for 
the property tax assessments as of January 1, 2024.
(2) (a)  Each municipality shall report to the department of revenue, in the 
time and manner determined by the department, the amount of the property taxes 
levied on the pipeline property of a pipeline company, as defined in s. 76.02 (5), for 
the property tax assessments as of January 1, 2024, on behalf of the municipality 
and on behalf of other taxing jurisdictions.
(b)  Each taxing jurisdiction shall report to the department of revenue, in the 
time and manner determined by the department, any information the department 
considers necessary to administer this section.
(c)  If a municipality does not timely electronically file the report required by 
the department of revenue under par. (a), the following reductions will be made to 
the municipality [s pipeline property aid distributed under sub. (1) in 2027:
1.  Reduction of the aid by 25 percent, if not filed by June 30, 2026.
2.  Forfeiture of the aid, if not filed by July 15, 2026.
(d)  If a municipality does not electronically file the report required by the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1006 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1519
department of revenue under par. (a) by July 15, 2026, the department may use the 
best information available to calculate the aid to distribute under sub. (1) in 2027 to 
the applicable taxing jurisdictions.
(3)  Each taxing jurisdiction shall attribute to each tax incremental district 
within the taxing jurisdiction the district [s proportionate share of the amount the 
taxing jurisdiction receives under sub. (1).  The amount that would have been paid 
to a tax incremental district under this subsection shall be distributed to the 
municipality and applicable taxing jurisdictions in the year following the 
termination of the tax incremental district and in each year thereafter.
(4)  The department of revenue shall certify the amount of the payment due 
each taxing jurisdiction under sub. (1) to the department of administration, and the 
department of administration shall make the payment on or before the first Monday 
in May.
SECTION  1520 .  79.10 (7m) (a) 1. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
79.10 (7m)  (a) 1. b.  In the 2024-25 fiscal year, on the 4th Monday in July 2024, 
the department of administration shall distribute $940,000,000 related to the 2023 
property tax levies.  In the 2024-25 fiscal year, on the first Monday in May 2025, the 
department of administration shall distribute $335,000,000, related to the 2024 
property tax levies.
d.  In the 2026-27 fiscal year, on the 4th Monday in July 2026, the department 
of administration shall distribute $940,000,000 related to the 2025 property tax 
levies.  In the 2026-27 fiscal year, on the first Monday in May 2027, the department 
of administration shall distribute $584,700,000  related to the 2026 property tax 
levies.  In each fiscal year thereafter, on the 4th Monday in July, the department of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1007 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1520
administration shall distribute $940,000,000 related to the property tax levies of 
the calendar year immediately preceding the distribution.  In each fiscal year 
thereafter, on the first Monday in May, the department of administration shall 
distribute $335,000,000 $584,700,000 related to the property tax levies of the 
calendar year immediately preceding the distribution.
SECTION  1521 .  79.10 (7m) (a) 1. c. of the statutes is created to read:
79.10 (7m)  (a) 1. c.  In the 2025-26 fiscal year, on the 4th Monday in July 2025, 
the department of administration shall distribute $940,000,000 related to the 2024 
property tax levies.  In the 2025-26 fiscal year, on the first Monday in May 2026, the 
department of administration shall distribute $460,300,000 related to the 2025 
property tax levies.
SECTION  1522 .  79.14 of the statutes is amended to read:
79.14   School levy tax credit.   The appropriation under s. 20.835 (3) (b), for 
the payments under s. 79.10 (4), is $319,305,000 in 1994, 1995, and 1996; 
$469,305,000 beginning in 1997 and ending in 2006; $593,050,000 in 2007; 
$672,400,000 in 2008; $747,400,000 in 2009; $732,550,000 in 2010, 2011, and 2012; 
$747,400,000 in 2013, 2014, and 2015; $853,000,000 in 2016 and 2017; and 
$940,000,000 in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022; and in fiscal year 2023-24, 
$1,195,000,000.  Beginning in In fiscal year 2024-25, the appropriation under s. 
20.835 (3) (b), for the payments under s. 79.10 (4), is $1,275,000,000; in fiscal year 
2025-26, the appropriation is $1,400,300,000; and in fiscal year 2026-27, the 
appropriation is $1,524,700,000.
SECTION  1523 .  84.01 (13) of the statutes is amended to read:
84.01 (13)  E NGINEERING  SERVICES .  The department may engage such 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1008 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1523
engineering, consulting, surveying, or other specialized services as it deems 
advisable.  Any engagement of services under this subsection is exempt from ss. 
16.70 to 16.75, 16.755 to 16.82, and 16.85 to 16.89, but ss. 16.528, 16.752, and 
16.754 apply to such engagement.  Any engagement involving an expenditure of 
$3,000 $100,000 or more shall be by formal contract approved by the governor.  The 
department shall conduct a uniform cost-benefit analysis, as defined in s. 16.70 
(3g), of each proposed engagement under this subsection that involves an estimated 
expenditure of more than $300,000 in accordance with standards prescribed by rule 
of the department and consider and document the results of the analysis before the 
determination of whether to undertake the proposed engagement.  The department 
shall review periodically, and before any renewal, the continued appropriateness of 
contracting pursuant to each engagement under this subsection that involves an 
estimated expenditure of more than $300,000.
SECTION  1524 .  84.013 (3) (be) of the statutes is created to read:
84.013 (3) (be)  I 39/90/94 extending approximately 67 miles in Dane, 
Columbia, Sauk, and Juneau counties from USH 12/18 in Madison to USH 12/STH 
16 in Wisconsin Dells, including I 39 from I 90/94 to Levee Road near the city of 
Portage, and including all interchanges and work on adjacent roadways necessary 
for the completion of the project. 
SECTION  1525 .  84.06 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
84.06 (2) (a)  All such highway improvements shall be executed by contract 
based on bids unless the department finds that another method as provided in sub. 
(3) or (4) would be more feasible and advantageous.  Bids shall be advertised for in 
the manner determined by the department.  Except as provided in s. 84.075, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1009 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1525
contract shall be awarded to the lowest competent and responsible bidder as 
determined by the department.  If the bid of the lowest competent bidder is 
determined by the department to be in excess of the estimated reasonable value of 
the work or not in the public interest, all bids may be rejected.  The department 
shall, so far as reasonable, follow uniform methods of advertising for bids and may 
prescribe and require uniform forms of bids and contracts.  Except as provided in 
par. (b), the secretary shall enter into the contract on behalf of the state.  Every such 
contract is exempted from ss. 16.70 to 16.75, 16.755 to 16.82, 16.87 and 16.89, but 
ss. 16.528, 16.752, and 16.754 apply to the contract.  Any such contract involving an 
expenditure of $1,000 $250,000 or more shall not be valid until approved by the 
governor.  The secretary may require the attorney general to examine any contract 
and any bond submitted in connection with the contract and report on its 
sufficiency of form and execution.  The bond required by s. 779.14 (1m) is exempt 
from approval by the governor and shall be subject to approval by the secretary.  
This subsection also applies to contracts with private contractors based on bids for 
maintenance under s. 84.07.
SECTION  1526 .  84.06 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
84.06 (3)  C ONTRACTS  WITH  COUNTY  OR MUNICIPALITY ; DIRECT  LABOR ; 
MATERIALS .  If the department finds that it would be more feasible and 
advantageous to have the improvement performed by the county in which the 
proposed improvement is located and without bids, the department may, by 
arrangement with the county highway committee of the county, enter into a 
contract satisfactory to the department to have the work done by the county forces 
and equipment.  In such contract the department may authorize the county to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1010 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1526
purchase, deliver, and store materials and may fix the rental rates of small tools 
and equipment.  The contract shall be between the county and the state and shall 
not be based on bids, and may be entered into on behalf of the county by the county 
highway committee and on behalf of the state by the secretary.  Such contract is 
exempted from s. 779.14 and from all provisions of chs. 16 and 230, except s. 16.754.  
If the total estimated indebtedness to be incurred exceeds $5,000 $100,000 the 
contract shall not be valid until approved by the governor.  The provisions of this 
subsection relating to agreements between a county and the state shall also 
authorize and apply to such arrangements between a city, town, or a village and the 
state.  In such cases, the governing body of the city, town, or village shall enter into 
the agreement on behalf of the municipality.
SECTION  1527 .  84.06 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
84.06 (4)  S PECIAL  CONTRACTS  WITH  RAILROADS  AND UTILITIES .  If an 
improvement undertaken by the department will cross or affect the property or 
facilities of a railroad or public utility company, the department may, upon finding 
that it is feasible and advantageous to the state, arrange to perform portions of the 
improvement work affecting such facilities or property or perform work of altering, 
rearranging, or relocating such facilities by contract with the railroad or public 
utility.  Such contract shall be between the railroad company or public utility and 
the state and need not be based on bids.  The contract may be entered into on behalf 
of the state by the secretary.  Every such contract is exempted from s. 779.14 and 
from all provisions of chs. 16 and 230, except ss. 16.528, 16.752, and 16.754.  No 
such contract in which the total estimated debt to be incurred exceeds $5,000 
$100,000 shall be valid until approved by the governor.  As used in this subsection, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1011 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1527
Xpublic utility Y means the same as in s. 196.01 (5), and includes a 
telecommunications carrier as defined in s. 196.01 (8m), and XrailroadY means the 
same as in s. 195.02.  XProperty Y as used in this subsection includes but is not 
limited to tracks, trestles, signals, grade crossings, rights-of-way, stations, pole 
lines, plants, substations, and other facilities.  Nothing in this subsection shall be 
construed to relieve any railroad or public utility from any financial obligation, 
expense, duty, or responsibility otherwise provided by law relative to such property.
SECTION  1528 .  84.07 (1b) of the statutes is amended to read:
84.07 (1b)  EMERGENCY  REPAIR  AND PROTECTION  OF STATE  TRUNK  HIGHWAYS .  
To accomplish prompt repair, protection or preservation of any state trunk highway 
which has been closed or is being jeopardized by extraordinary damage by flood, 
structure failure, slides, or other extraordinary condition of necessity and 
emergency, the department may, if it is deemed for the best interest of the state, 
proceed at once to repair or protect the highway with forces and services of private 
constructors and agencies, summarily engaged by the department and cause said 
work to be done by negotiated contract or agreement without calling for competitive 
bids, provided that any such contract or agreement involving an estimated 
expenditure in excess of $10,000 $100,000 shall be subject to approval of the 
governor before it becomes effective.
SECTION  1529 .  84.11 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
84.11 (4)  F INDING , DETERMINATION , AND ORDER .  After such hearing the 
department shall make such investigation as it considers necessary in order to 
make a decision in the matter.  If the department finds that the construction is 
necessary it shall determine the location of the project and whether the project is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1012 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1529
eligible for construction under this section.  The department shall also determine 
the character and kind of bridge most suitable for such location and estimate 
separately the cost of the bridge portion and the entire project.  The department 
shall make its finding, determination, and order, in writing, and file a certified copy 
thereof with the clerk of each county, city, village, and town in which any portion of 
the bridge project will be located and also with the secretary of state and the 
secretary of administration.  The determination of the location of the project made 
by the department and set forth in its finding, determination, and order shall be 
conclusive as to such location and shall constitute full authority for laying out new 
streets or highways or for any relocations of highways made necessary for the 
construction of the project and for acquirement of any lands necessary for such 
streets or highways, relocation or construction.  The estimate of cost made by the 
department shall be conclusive insofar as cost may determine eligibility of 
construction under this section.
SECTION  1530 .  84.12 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
84.12 (4)  FINDING , DETERMINATION , AND ORDER .  If the department finds that 
the construction is necessary, and that provision has been made or will be made by 
the adjoining state or its subdivisions to bear its or their portions of the cost of the 
project, the department, in cooperation with the state highway department of the 
adjoining state, shall determine the location thereof, the character and kind of 
bridge and other construction most suitable at such location, estimate the cost of 
the project, and determine the respective portions of the estimated cost to be paid by 
each state and its subdivisions.  In the case of projects eligible to construction under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1013 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1530
sub. (1) (a) the department shall further determine the respective portions of the 
cost to be paid by this state and by its subdivisions which are required to pay 
portions of the cost.  The department, after such hearing, investigation, and 
negotiations, shall make its finding, determination, and order in writing and file a 
certified copy thereof with the clerk of each county, city, village, or town in this state 
in which any part of the bridge project will be located, with the secretary of state, 
and the secretary of administration and with the state highway department of the 
adjoining state.  The determination of the location set forth in the finding, 
determination, and order of the department shall be conclusive as to such location 
and shall constitute full authority for laying out new streets or highways or for any 
relocations of the highways made necessary for the construction of the project and 
for acquiring lands necessary for such streets or highways, relocation or 
construction.
SECTION  1531 .  84.185 (3) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
84.185 (3) (a) 2.  Five Fifteen thousand dollars for each job retained or created 
in this state resulting directly from the improvement or economic development 
project.
SECTION  1532 .  84.41 (3) of the statutes is created to read:
84.41 (3)  EMPLOYMENT  REGULATIONS .  Employment regulations set forth in s. 
103.50 pertaining to wages and hours shall apply to all projects constructed under 
s. 84.40 in the same manner as such laws apply to projects on other state highways.  
Where applicable, the federal wages and hours law known as the Davis-Bacon act 
shall apply.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1014 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1533
SECTION  1533 .  84.54 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1534 .  84.59 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
84.59 (1)  Transportation facilities under s. 84.01 (28) and, major highway 
projects as defined under s. 84.013 (1) (a) for the purposes under ss. 84.06 and 
84.09, and state highway rehabilitation projects for the purposes specified in s. 
20.395 (3) (cq) may be funded with the proceeds of revenue obligations issued 
subject to and in accordance with subch. II of ch. 18.
SECTION  1535 .  84.59 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
84.59 (6)  The building commission may contract revenue obligations when it 
reasonably appears to the building commission that all obligations incurred under 
this section can be fully paid from moneys received or anticipated and pledged to be 
received on a timely basis.  Except as provided in this subsection, the principal 
amount of revenue obligations issued under this section may not exceed 
$4,055,372,900 $4,644,920,600, excluding any obligations that have been defeased 
under a cash optimization program administered by the building commission, to be 
used for transportation facilities under s. 84.01 (28) and, major highway projects for 
the purposes under ss. 84.06 and 84.09.  In addition to the foregoing limit on 
principal amount, the building commission may contract revenue obligations under 
this section up to $142,254,600, excluding any obligations that have been defeased 
under a cash optimization program administered by the building commission, to be 
used for transportation facilities under s. 84.01 (28) and major highway projects for 
the purposes under ss. 84.06 and 84.09.  In addition to the foregoing limit on 
principal amount, the building commission may contract revenue obligations under 
this section up to $128,258,200, excluding any obligations that have been defeased 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1015 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1535
under a cash optimization program administered by the building commission, to be 
used for transportation facilities under s. 84.01 (28) and major highway projects for 
the purposes under ss. 84.06 and 84.09, and state highway rehabilitation projects 
for the purposes specified in s. 20.395 (3) (cq). In addition to the foregoing limits on 
principal amount, the building commission may contract revenue obligations under 
this section as the building commission determines is desirable to refund 
outstanding revenue obligations contracted under this section, to make payments 
under agreements or ancillary arrangements entered into under s. 18.55 (6) with 
respect to revenue obligations issued under this section, and to pay expenses 
associated with revenue obligations contracted under this section.
SECTION  1536 .  85.024 of the statutes is created to read:
85.024   Local traffic calming grants.   The department shall develop and 
administer a local traffic calming grant program.  From the appropriation under s. 
20.395 (2) (ja), the department shall award grants to counties, cities, villages, and 
towns for infrastructure projects that are eligible for funding under the federal 
transportation alternatives program and that are designed to reduce the speed of 
vehicular traffic.  The department shall prescribe the form, nature, and extent of 
information that shall be contained in applications for grants under this section and 
shall establish criteria for evaluating applications and for awarding grants under 
this section.
SECTION  1537 .  85.064 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
85.064 (1) (b)  XPolitical subdivision Y means any city, village, town, county, or 
transit commission organized under s. 59.58 (2) or 66.1021 or recognized under s. 
66.0301, or transit authority created under s. 66.1039 within this state.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1016 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1538
SECTION  1538 .  85.20 (4m) (a) 6. cm. of the statutes is amended to read:
85.20 (4m)  (a) 6. cm.  From the appropriation under s. 20.395 (1) (hd), the 
department shall pay $32,738,900 for calendar year 2022, $65,477,800 for calendar 
year 2023, and $66,787,400 for calendar year 2025, $69,458,900 for calendar year 
2026, and $72,237,300 for calendar year 2027 and each  calendar year thereafter, to 
the eligible applicant that pays the local contribution required under par. (b) 1. for 
an urban mass transit system that has annual operating expenses of $80,000,000 
$100,000,000 or more.  If the eligible applicant that receives aid under this subd. 6. 
cm. is served by more than one urban mass transit system, the eligible applicant 
may allocate the aid between the urban mass transit systems in any manner the 
eligible applicant considers desirable.
SECTION  1539 .  85.20 (4m) (a) 6. d. of the statutes is amended to read:
85.20 (4m)  (a) 6. d.  From the appropriation under s. 20.395 (1) (he), the 
department shall pay $8,602,700 for calendar year 2022, $17,205,400 for calendar 
year 2023, and $17,549,500 for calendar year 2025, $18,251,500 for calendar year 
2026, $18,981,600 for calendar year 2027 and each calendar year thereafter, to the 
eligible applicant that pays the local contribution required under par. (b) 1. for an 
urban mass transit system that has annual operating expenses in excess of 
$20,000,000 $30,000,000 but less than $80,000,000 $100,000,000.  If the eligible 
applicant that receives aid under this subd. 6. d. is served by more than one urban 
mass transit system, the eligible applicant may allocate the aid between the urban 
mass transit systems in any manner the eligible applicant considers desirable.
SECTION  1540 .  85.20 (4m) (a) 7. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
85.20 (4m)  (a) 7. a.  From the appropriation under s. 20.395 (1) (hb), beginning 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1017 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1540
with aid payable for calendar year 2002 and for each calendar year thereafter, the 
uniform percentage for each eligible applicant served by an urban mass transit 
system operating within an urbanized area having a population as shown in the 
2010 most recent federal decennial census of at least 50,000 or receiving federal 
mass transit aid for such area, and not specified in subd. 6.
SECTION  1541 .  85.20 (4m) (a) 7. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
85.20 (4m)  (a) 7. b.  For the purpose of making allocations under subd. 7. a., 
the amounts for aids are $24,976,400 in calendar years 2020 to 2023 and 
$25,475,900 in calendar year 2025, $26,494,900 in calendar year 2026, and 
$27,554,700 in calendar year 2027 and each calendar year thereafter.  These 
amounts, to the extent practicable, shall be used to determine the uniform 
percentage in the particular calendar year.
SECTION  1542 .  85.20 (4m) (a) 8. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
85.20 (4m)  (a) 8. a.  From the appropriation under s. 20.395 (1) (hc), beginning 
with aid payable for calendar year 2002 and for each calendar year thereafter, the 
uniform percentage for each eligible applicant served by an urban mass transit 
system operating within an area having a population as shown in the 2010 most 
recent federal decennial census of less than 50,000 or receiving federal mass transit 
aid for such area.
SECTION  1543 .  85.20 (4m) (a) 8. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
85.20 (4m)  (a) 8. b.  For the purpose of making allocations under subd. 8. a., 
the amounts for aids are $5,292,700 in calendar years 2020 to 2023 and $5,398,600 
in calendar year 2025, $9,800,600 in calendar year 2026, and $10,192,600 in 
calendar year 2027 and each calendar year thereafter.  These amounts, to the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1018 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1543
extent practicable, shall be used to determine the uniform percentage in the 
particular calendar year.
SECTION  1544 .  85.203 of the statutes is created to read:
85.203   Transit capital assistance grants.   (1)  In this section:
(a)  XEligible applicant Y has the meaning given in s. 85.20 (1) (b).
(b)  XPublic transit vehicle Y means any vehicle used for providing 
transportation service to the general public that is eligible for replacement under 
settlement guidelines, as defined in s. 16.047 (1) (b).
(2)  The department shall administer a transit capital assistance grant 
program.  From the appropriation under s. 20.395 (1) (ba), the department shall 
award grants to eligible applicants for the replacement of public transit vehicles.  
The department shall establish criteria for awarding grants under this section.
SECTION  1545 .  85.52 (3) (am) of the statutes is created to read:
85.52 (3) (am)  If the department finds that special circumstances exist, the 
department may award to an eligible applicant for a loan or other assistance under 
par. (a) totalling $100,000 or more a grant for the purpose of engaging a certified 
public accountant licensed or certified under ch. 442 to make any certifications or 
attestations required by the department as a condition of receiving a loan or other 
assistance under par. (a).
SECTION  1546 .  85.61 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
85.61 (1)  The secretary of transportation and the administrator of the 
elections commission shall enter into an agreement to match personally 
identifiable information on the official registration list maintained by the 
commission under s. 6.36 (1) and the information specified in s. ss. 6.256 (2) and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1019 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1546
6.34 (2m) with personally identifiable information in the operating record file 
database under ch. 343 and vehicle registration records under ch. 341 to the extent 
required to enable the secretary of transportation and the administrator of the 
elections commission to verify the accuracy of the information provided for the 
purpose of voter registration.  Notwithstanding ss. 110.09 (2), 342.06 (1) (eg), and 
343.14 (2j), but subject to s. 343.14 (2p) (b), the agreement shall provide for the 
transfer of electronic information under s. 6.256 (2) to the commission on a 
continuous basis, no less often than weekly.
SECTION  1547 .  86.195 (5) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
86.195 (5) (c)  Conformity with discrimination laws.   Each business identified 
as a motorist service on a specific information sign shall, as a condition of eligibility 
for erection, installation and maintenance of a sign under this section, give written 
assurance to the department that the business conforms with all applicable laws 
concerning the provisions of public accommodations without regard to race, 
religion, color, sex or, national origin, or status as a holder or nonholder of a license 
under s. 343.03 (3r).
SECTION  1548 .  86.255 (2) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
86.255 (2) (c)  The purchase of any land, easements, or development rights in 
land executed in the name of the department for the completion of the I 39/90/94 
project under s. 84.013 (3) (be).
SECTION  1549 .  86.30 (2) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
86.30 (2) (a) 3.  For each mile of road or street under the jurisdiction of a 
municipality as determined under s. 86.302, the mileage aid payment shall be 
$2,628 in calendar years 2020 and 2021, $2,681 in calendar year 2022, and $2,734 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1020 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1549
in calendar year years 2023 and to 2025, $2,816 in calendar year 2026, and $2,901 
in calendar year 2027 and thereafter.
SECTION  1550 .  86.30 (9) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
86.30 (9) (b)  For the purpose of calculating and distributing aids under sub. 
(2), the amounts for aids to counties are $127,140,200 in calendar year 2023.  In 
calendar year 2024, the amounts for aids to counties are $129,683,000.  In calendar 
year 2025 and thereafter, the amounts for aids to counties are $132,276,700 in 
calendar year 2025, $136,245,000 in calendar year 2026, and $140,332,400 in 
calendar year 2027 and thereafter.  These amounts, to the extent practicable, shall 
be used to determine the statewide county average cost-sharing percentage in the 
particular calendar year.
SECTION  1551 .  86.30 (9) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
86.30 (9) (c)  For the purpose of calculating and distributing aids under sub. 
(2), the amounts for aids to municipalities are $398,996,800 in calendar year 2023.  
In calendar year 2024, the amounts for aids to municipalities are $406,976,700.  In 
calendar year 2025 and thereafter, the amounts for aids to municipalities are 
$415,116,200 in calendar year 2025, $427,569,700 in calendar year 2026, and 
$440,396,800 in calendar year 2027 and thereafter.  These amounts, to the extent 
practicable, shall be used to determine the statewide municipal average cost-
sharing percentage in the particular calendar year.
SECTION  1552 .  86.31 (3g) of the statutes is amended to read:
86.31 (3g)  C OUNTY  TRUNK  HIGHWAY  IMPROVEMENTS   DISCRETIONARY  
GRANTS .  From the appropriation under s. 20.395 (2) (ft), the department shall 
allocate $5,127,000 in fiscal years 2014-15 to 2016-17 and $5,393,400 in fiscal year 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1021 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1552
2017-2018 to fund county trunk highway improvements with eligible costs totaling 
more than $250,000.  In fiscal year 2023-24 the department shall allocate 
$5,615,600 to fund county trunk highway improvements with such eligible costs.  In 
fiscal year 2024-25 and each fiscal year thereafter, the department shall allocate 
$5,840,200 to fund county trunk highway improvements with such eligible costs.  In 
fiscal year 2025-26, the department shall allocate $6,015,400 to fund county trunk 
highway improvements with such eligible costs.  In fiscal year 2026-27 and each 
fiscal year thereafter, the department shall allocate $6,195,900 to fund county 
trunk highway improvements with such eligible costs.  The funding of 
improvements under this subsection is in addition to the allocation of funds for 
entitlements under sub. (3).
SECTION  1553 .  86.31 (3m) of the statutes is amended to read:
86.31 (3m)   TOWN ROAD  IMPROVEMENTS   DISCRETIONARY  GRANTS .  From the 
appropriation under s. 20.395 (2) (ft), the department shall allocate $5,732,500 in 
fiscal years 2011-12 to 2016-17 and $5,923,600 in fiscal year 2017-18 to fund town 
road improvements with eligible costs totaling $100,000 or more.  In fiscal year 
2023-24, the department shall allocate $6,151,900 to fund town road improvements 
with such eligible costs.  In fiscal year 2024-25 and each fiscal year thereafter, the 
department shall allocate $6,398,000 to fund town road improvements with such 
eligible costs.  In fiscal year 2025-26, the department shall allocate $6,590,000 to 
fund town road improvements with such eligible costs.  In fiscal year 2026-27 and 
each fiscal year thereafter, the department shall allocate $6,787,600 to fund town 
road improvements with such eligible costs.  The funding of improvements under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1022 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1553
this subsection is in addition to the allocation of funds for entitlements under sub. 
(3).
SECTION  1554 .  86.31 (3o) (m) 1. of the statutes is renumbered 86.31 (3o) (m) 
1m. a. and amended to read:
86.31 (3o) (m) 1m. a.  After June 23, 2026, the The department may not award 
a grant under this subsection from moneys appropriated in the 2023-25 fiscal 
biennium after June 23, 2026.
SECTION  1555 .  86.31 (3o) (m) 2. of the statutes is renumbered 86.31 (3o) (m) 
1m. b. and amended to read:
86.31 (3o) (m) 1m. b.  After June 23, 2028, the The department may not 
reimburse any costs incurred under this subsection after June 23, 2028, with 
moneys appropriated in the 2023-25 fiscal biennium.
SECTION  1556 .  86.31 (3o) (m) 2m. of the statutes is created to read:
86.31 (3o) (m) 2m. a.  The department may not award a grant under this 
subsection from moneys appropriated in the 2025-27 fiscal biennium after 3 years 
after the effective date of this subd. 2m. a. .... [LRB inserts date].
b.  The department may not reimburse any costs incurred under this 
subsection after 5 years after the effective date of this subd. 2m. b. .... [LRB inserts 
date] with moneys appropriated in the 2025-27 fiscal biennium.
SECTION  1557 .  86.31 (3o) (n) of the statutes is amended to read:
86.31 (3o) (n)  Except as provided in pars. (k) and (m) 2., this subsection does 
not apply after June 23, 2028 5 years after the effective date of this paragraph .... 
[LRB inserts date].
SECTION  1558 .  86.31 (3r) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1023 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1558
86.31 (3r)  M UNICIPAL  STREET  IMPROVEMENTS   DISCRETIONARY  GRANTS .  
From the appropriation under s. 20.395 (2) (ft), the department shall allocate 
$976,500 in fiscal years 2009-10 to 2016-17 and $3,850,400 in fiscal year 2017-18 to 
fund municipal street improvement projects having total estimated costs of 
$250,000 or more.  In fiscal year 2023-24, the department shall allocate $4,006,600 
to fund municipal street improvement projects having such total estimated costs.  
In fiscal year 2024-25 and each fiscal year thereafter, the department shall allocate 
$4,166,900 to fund municipal street improvement projects having such total 
estimated costs.  In fiscal year 2025-26, the department shall allocate $4,291,900 to 
fund municipal street improvement projects having such total estimated costs.  In 
fiscal year 2026-27 and each fiscal year thereafter, the department shall allocate 
$4,420,700 to fund municipal street improvement projects having such total 
estimated costs.  The funding of improvements under this subsection is in addition 
to the allocation of funds for entitlements under sub. (3).
SECTION  1559 .  86.31 (3s) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
86.31 (3s) (a)  Funds provided under s. 20.395 (2) (fq) (fd) shall be distributed 
under this subsection as discretionary grants to reimburse political subdivisions for 
improvements.  The department shall solicit and provide discretionary grants 
under this subsection until all funds appropriated under s. 20.395 (2) (fq) (fd) have 
been expended.
SECTION  1560 .  86.31 (3s) (bm) of the statutes is renumbered 86.31 (3s) (bm) 
1. and amended to read:
86.31 (3s) (bm) 1.  From the appropriation under s. 20.395 (2) (fq), 2023 stats., 
the department shall allocate in 2023-24 amounts for county trunk highway 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1024 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1560
improvements, town road improvements, and municipal street improvements so 
that the total funding under s. 20.395 (2) (fq), 2023 stats., in 2023-24 is distributed 
among these groups at the same percentage that each group is allocated from the 
total funding allocated under par. (b).
SECTION  1561 .  86.31 (3s) (bm) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
86.31 (3s) (bm) 2.  From the appropriation under s. 20.395 (2) (fd), the 
department shall allocate in fiscal year 2025-26 amounts for county trunk highway 
improvements, town road improvements, and municipal street improvements so 
that the total funding under s. 20.395 (2) (fd) in fiscal year 2025-26 is distributed 
among these groups at the same percentage that each group is allocated from the 
total funding allocated under par. (b).
SECTION  1562 .  86.315 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 86.315 (1) (intro.) and 
amended to read:
86.315 (1) (intro.)  From the appropriation under s. 20.395 (1) (fu), the 
department shall annually, on March 10, pay to counties having county forests 
established under ch. 28, for the improvement of public roads within the county 
forests which are open and used for travel and which are not state or county trunk 
highways or town roads and for which no aids are paid under s. 86.30, the amount of 
$351 following amounts per mile of road designated in the comprehensive county 
forest land use plan as approved by the county board and the department of natural 
resources.:
(1m)  If the amount appropriated under s. 20.395 (1) (fu) is insufficient to 
make the payments required under this subsection sub. (1), the department shall 
prorate the amount appropriated in the manner it considers desirable.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1025 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1563
SECTION  1563 .  86.315 (1) (a) of the statutes is created to read:
86.315 (1) (a)  In calendar year 2025, $351.
SECTION  1564 .  86.315 (1) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
86.315 (1) (b)  In calendar year 2026, $361.
SECTION  1565 .  86.315 (1) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
86.315 (1) (c)  In calendar year 2027 and each year thereafter, $373.
SECTION  1566 .  86.51 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1567 .  91.10 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
91.10   (title)  County plan required; planning and implementation 
grants.
SECTION  1568 .  91.10 (7) of the statutes is created to read:
91.10 (7) (a)  From the appropriation under s. 20.115 (7) (tm), the department 
may award implementation grants to counties for implementing a county [s certified 
farmland preservation plan.
(b)  The department shall enter into a contract with a county to which it 
awards an implementation grant under par. (a) before the department distributes 
any grant funds to the county.  In the contract, the department shall identify the 
costs that are eligible for reimbursement through the grant.
(c)  The department may distribute grant funds under this subsection only 
after the county shows that it has incurred costs that are eligible for reimbursement 
under par. (b).
SECTION  1569 .  91.84 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
91.84 (1) (b)  The department may designate agricultural enterprise areas 
with a combined area of not more than 2,000,000 3,000,000 acres of land.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1026 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1570
SECTION  1570 .  92.14 (16) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
92.14 (16) (title)  C OMMERCIAL  NITROGEN  OPTIMIZATION  PILOT  PROGRAM .
SECTION  1571 .  92.14 (16) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
92.14 (16) (a)  In addition to any grants provided under sub. (3), the 
department shall award grants from the appropriation under s. 20.115 (7) (qf) (qm) 
to agricultural producers and to University of Wisconsin System institutions as 
provided under this subsection.
SECTION  1572 .  92.14 (18) of the statutes is created to read:
92.14 (18)  PFAS MONITORING .  As part of any statewide monitoring program, 
sampling program, or survey conducted by the department, any samples that are 
collected and tested shall also, at the department [s discretion and where 
appropriate, be tested for the presence of any perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
substance.
SECTION  1573 .  93.425 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
93.425 (3)  Of the moneys appropriated under s. 20.115 (3) (b), the center for 
international agribusiness marketing shall ensure that $2,500,000 is expended for 
the objective specified in sub. (2) (a), $1,250,000 is expended for the objective 
specified in sub. (2) (b), and $1,250,000 is expended for the objective specified in 
sub. (2) (c).  The center may not expend more than $1,000,000 under the program in 
any fiscal year.
SECTION  1574 .  93.525 of the statutes is created to read:
93.525   Meat processing tuition and curriculum development grants.   
(1)  From the appropriation under s. 20.115 (3) (f), the department shall provide 
grants to universities, colleges, and technical colleges located in this state that have 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1027 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1574
programs in meat processing to reimburse tuition costs of students enrolled in a 
meat processing program and for curriculum development for the meat processing 
program.
(2)  Each tuition reimbursement made with a grant received under this 
section shall reimburse a student for not more than 80 percent of the first $9,375 of 
the tuition cost for enrolling in a meat processing program.
SECTION  1575 .  93.53 of the statutes is created to read:
93.53   Food waste reduction grants.   (1)  The department shall provide 
grants for food waste reduction pilot projects that have an objective of preventing 
food waste, redirecting surplus food to hunger relief organizations, and composting 
food waste.  In awarding grants under this section, the department shall give 
preference to proposals that serve census tracts for which the median household 
income is below the statewide median household income and in which no grocery 
store is located.
(2)  The department shall promulgate rules for the administration of this 
section.
SECTION  1576 .  93.54 of the statutes is created to read:
93.54   Dairy agriculture resilience investment now grant pilot 
program.   (1)  P ROGRAM .  The department shall create a dairy agriculture 
resilience investment now grant pilot program, under which the department shall 
provide grants to dairy producers with fewer than 1,000 head of milking cows to 
fund projects designed to improve the dairy producers [ operational efficiency and 
resilience.
(2)  RULES .  The department may promulgate rules to administer this section.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1028 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1577
SECTION  1577 .  93.60 of the statutes is created to read:
93.60   Transition to grass pilot program.   (1)  D EFINITIONS .  In this 
section:
(a)  XManaged grazing Y means a grazing system alternative to continuous 
grazing, in which pastured fields are subdivided into smaller paddocks, livestock 
density is controlled, and animals are rotated through paddocks at a frequency that 
maintains perennial grass-based vegetative cover, ensures regular access to fresh 
higher quality forage, and reduces soil compaction and erosion.
(b)  XMarginal area Y means land that is excluded from cultivation due to 
economic infeasibility or physical restriction for growing conventional crops, and 
includes riparian areas, low areas prone to flooding, and steep lands not conducive 
to conventional cultivation.
(2)  TRANSITION  TO GRASS  PILOT  PROGRAM .  From the appropriation under s. 
20.115 (4) (t), the department shall create and administer a transition to grass pilot 
program that awards grants to farmers for managed grazing technical assistance 
and implementation support.
(3)  GRAZING  GRANTS .  (a)  Subject to par. (b), the transition to grass pilot 
program shall award grants to farmers for any of the following purposes:
1.  To assist a farmer with establishing perennial forages for rotational 
grazing of livestock raised in a grass-based managed grazing system.
2.  To provide assistance to a farmer in establishing harvestable continuous 
cover in marginal areas that can produce supplemental feed for livestock that is 
raised in a grass-based managed grazing system.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1029 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1577
3.  To provide a farmer with incentive payments during the first 3 years of the 
farmer[s transition to grass-based managed grazing systems.
4.  To assist a farmer with paying for grass-based managed grazing system 
infrastructure needs, including fencing, watering, and other livestock management 
infrastructure.
5.  Technical assistance and support from a certified grazing specialist in 
developing grazing plans, including determining field layout, infrastructure setup, 
seed selection, and establishment of rotational grazing patterns.
(b)  Grants awarded under par. (a) shall be awarded only to a farmer 
implementing a new grass-based managed grazing system or a new managed 
grazing practice that improves the conservation and financial performance of 
existing grazing systems; grants may not be awarded to a farmer for the support of 
the farmer [s existing grazing practices.
(c)  The department may not award more than $40,000 in grants under par. (a) 
to any one grantee.
(d)  In the year following the department [s decision to grant an award under 
par. (a), the department shall provide 75 percent of the award to the grantee, and in 
each of the 2nd and 3rd years following the department [s decision to grant an award 
under par. (a), the department shall provide 12.5 percent of the award to the 
grantee.
(4)  SUPPORT  FOR FARMERS .  (a)  The transition to grass pilot program shall 
provide the following for farmers and persons in agribusiness:
1.  Assistance in navigating and analyzing the economics of grass-based 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1030 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1577
managed grazing and providing grass-fed livestock research, market development 
initiatives, and other market opportunities.
2.  Best practices for meeting consumer demand for grass-fed livestock 
products.
3.  Assistance in fostering innovation in and expanding farm and agribusiness 
strategies in grass-based managed grazing systems and grass-fed livestock 
practices.
(b)  The department [s division of agricultural development shall support the 
state[s grass-fed livestock supply chain, including regional processors, aggregators, 
distributors, and markets.
SECTION  1578 .  93.61 of the statutes is created to read:
93.61  Value-added agricultural practices.  (1)   D EFINITION .  In this 
section, Xvalue-added agricultural product Y means a farm product that satisfies any 
of the following:
(a)  The product has undergone a change in physical state.
(b)  The product is produced in a manner that enhances its value.
(c)  The product is physically segregated in a manner that enhances its value.
(d)  The product is a source of farm-based or ranch-based renewable energy.
(e)  The product is aggregated and marketed as a locally produced farm 
product.
(2)  VALUE -ADDED  AGRICULTURAL  PRODUCTS .  The department may provide 
education and technical assistance related to promoting and implementing 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1031 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1578
agricultural practices that produce value-added agricultural products, including by 
doing all of the following:
(a)  Assistance for organic farming practices.   Providing education and 
technical assistance related to organic farming practices, including business and 
market development assistance; collaborating with organic producers, industry 
participants, and local organizations that coordinate organic farming; and 
stimulating interest and investment in organic production.  The department may 
award grants from the appropriation under s. 20.115 (4) (ar) to organic producers, 
industry participants, and local organizations that coordinate organic farming.  The 
department may award a grant to an organic producer, industry participant, or 
local organization under this paragraph for any of the following purposes:
1.  Providing education and technical assistance related to implementing 
organic farming practices.
2.  Helping to create organic farming plans.
3.  Assisting farmers to transition to organic farming.
(b)  Grazing grants.   Awarding grants from the appropriation under s. 20.115 
(4) (f) to appropriate entities to provide education and training to farmers about 
best practices related to grazing.
(c)  Promotion.   Helping producers market value-added agricultural products.
(3)  RULES .  The department may promulgate rules to administer this section.
SECTION  1579 .  93.62 of the statutes is created to read:
93.62   Food security and Wisconsin products grant program.  The 
department may award grants from the appropriation under s. 20.115 (4) (aq) to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1032 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1579
nonprofit food banks, nonprofit food pantries, and other nonprofit organizations 
that provide food assistance for the purpose of purchasing food products that are 
made or grown in this state.
SECTION  1580 .  93.63 of the statutes is created to read:
93.63   Farm to fork program.   (1)  DEFINITION .  In this section, Xfarm to fork 
program Y means a program to connect entities that are not school districts and that 
have cafeterias to nearby farms to provide locally produced fresh fruits and 
vegetables, dairy products, and other nutritious, locally produced foods in meals 
and snacks; to help the public develop healthy eating habits; to provide nutritional 
and agricultural education; and to improve farmers [ incomes and direct access to 
markets.
(2)  GRANTS .  (a)  The department may award grants from the appropriation 
under s. 20.115 (4) (at) to businesses, universities, hospitals, and other entities that 
are not school districts and that have cafeterias for the creation and expansion of 
farm to fork programs.  The department shall give preference to proposals that are 
innovative or that provide models that other entities can adopt.
(b)  In awarding grants under this section, the department shall promote 
agricultural development and farm profitability by supporting the development and 
adoption of practices and agribusiness opportunities that involve the production of 
value-added agricultural products.  For purposes of this paragraph, Xvalue-added 
agricultural product Y means a farm product that satisfies any of the following:
1.  The product has undergone a change in physical state.
2.  The product is produced in a manner that enhances its value.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1033 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1580
3.  The product is physically segregated in a manner that enhances its value.
4.  The product is a source of farm-based or ranch-based renewable energy.
5.  The product is aggregated and marketed as a locally produced farm 
product.
(c)  The department may award grants under this subsection for projects that 
do any of the following:
1.  Create, expand, diversify, or promote production, processing, marketing, 
and distribution of food produced in this state for sale to entities in this state other 
than school districts.
2.  Create, expand, or renovate facilities, including purchases of equipment for 
the facilities, that would ensure the use of food produced in this state in locations in 
this state other than schools.
3.  Provide, expand, or promote training for food service personnel, farmers, 
and distributors.
4.  Provide, expand, or promote nutritional and agricultural education.
(d)  The department shall consult with interested persons to establish grant 
priorities for each fiscal year.
(3)  REPORTS .  At least annually, the department shall report to the legislature 
under s. 13.172 (2) and to the secretary on the needs and opportunities for farm to 
fork programs.
(4)  RULES .  The department may promulgate rules to administer this section.
SECTION  1581 .  93.67 of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1034 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1581
93.67   Sandhill crane damage reimbursement program.   (1)  In this 
section:
(a)  XEligible applicant Y means a person that plants corn on land that is 
operated as part of a farm that produced at least $6,000 in gross farm revenues 
during the taxable year preceding the year in which the person applies for 
reimbursement under this section.
(b)  XFarmY means all land under common ownership that is primarily devoted 
to agricultural use.
(c)  XSeed coating Y means a nonlethal treatment registered for use on corn seed 
to discourage sandhill cranes from consuming the seed.
(2) (a)  The department shall administer a program to provide 
reimbursements to eligible applicants for the purchase of seed coating that is 
applied as a seed treatment.
(b)  A reimbursement under this section shall cover not more than 50 percent 
of the actual cost of the purchase of seed coating that is applied as a seed treatment 
and may not exceed $6,250 per eligible applicant per planting season.
(c)  From March 1 to June 15 of each year, eligible applicants may apply to the 
department for reimbursement for seed coating purchased no earlier than 
November 1 of the prior year.  Eligible applicants shall provide to the department 
proof of purchase and an application on a form provided by the department to be 
eligible to receive a reimbursement under this section.
(d)  From the appropriation under s. 20.115 (7) (ac), the department shall 
prioritize reimbursement payments under par. (c) to all of the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1035 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1581
1.  Eligible applicants that received a federal depredation permit for sandhill 
crane in the previous year.
2.  Eligible applicants that received reimbursement under this section in any 
of the prior 3 years or that can provide documentation of purchase of seed coating in 
any of the prior 3 years.
3.  Eligible applicants planting corn on land vulnerable to sandhill crane 
depredation as determined by the department in consultation with the department 
of natural resources and applicable conservation organizations.
(e)  After reimbursing all eligible applicants under par. (d), from the 
appropriation under s. 20.115 (7) (ac), the department shall make reimbursement 
payments to other eligible applicants that have experienced or are likely to 
experience seed or crop damage from sandhill cranes.  The department shall make 
payments under this paragraph to eligible applicants in the order in which 
applications are received by the department.
(f)  The department shall make all reimbursement payments under pars. (d) 
and (e) no later than September 15 of the year in which applications are made 
under par. (c).
(g)  A farm is eligible to receive only one reimbursement payment per year 
under this section.
(3)  The department shall compile an annual report detailing the number of 
reimbursements requested, the total dollar amount requested as reimbursement, 
the number of reimbursements issued, and the total dollar amount disbursed as 
reimbursement under this section.  The department shall submit the report to the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1036 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1581
appropriate standing committees of the legislature in the manner provided in s. 
13.172 (3) no later than December 31 each year.
(4)  The department may promulgate rules to establish prioritization of 
payments under sub. (2) (d) and (e), including identifying applicable conservation 
organizations under sub. (2) (d) 3. and determining whether eligible applicants 
have experienced or are likely to experience seed or crop damage under sub. (2) (e).
SECTION  1582 .  93.73 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
93.73 (2) (b)  The department, after consultation with the council under sub. 
(13), shall solicit applications under sub. (3) at least annually.  The department 
shall issue each solicitation in writing and shall publish a notice announcing the 
solicitation.  In soliciting applications, the department may specify the total 
amount of funds available, application deadlines, application requirements and 
procedures, preliminary criteria for evaluating applications, and other relevant 
information.
SECTION  1583 .  93.74 of the statutes is created to read:
93.74   Planning grants for regional biodigesters.   (1)  GRANT  PROGRAM .  
From the appropriation under s. 20.115 (7) (u), the department shall provide 
planning grants for establishing regional biodigesters.
(2)  RULES .  The department shall promulgate rules for the administration of 
this section.
SECTION  1584 .  93.75 of the statutes is created to read:
93.75   Biodigester operator certification grants.   (1)  GRANTS .  From the 
appropriation under s. 20.115 (7) (da), the department shall award grants to 
individuals seeking biodigester operator certification.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1037 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1584
(2)  R ULES .  The department may promulgate rules establishing the 
application process and grant-awarding criteria for the biodigester operator 
certification grants.
SECTION  1585 .  94.55 (2t) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1586 .  94.56 of the statutes is created to read:
94.56   Marijuana producers and processors.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this 
section:
(a)  XLabor peace agreement Y means an agreement between a person applying 
for a permit under this section and a labor organization, as defined in s. 5.02 (8m), 
that does all of the following:
1.  Prohibits the labor organization and its members from engaging in 
picketing, work stoppages, boycotts, and any other economic interference with 
persons doing business in this state.
2.  Prohibits the applicant from disrupting the efforts of the labor organization 
to communicate with and to organize and represent the applicant [s employees.
3.  Provides the labor organization access at reasonable times to areas in 
which the applicant [s employees work for the purpose of meeting with employees to 
discuss their right to representation, employment rights under state law, and terms 
and conditions of employment.
(b)  XMarijuana Y has the meaning given in s. 961.70 (2).
(c)  XMarijuana processor Y has the meaning given in s. 139.97 (6).
(d)  XMarijuana producer Y has the meaning given in s. 139.97 (7).
(e)  XUsable marijuana Y has the meaning given in s. 139.97 (13).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1038 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1586
(f)  XPermittee Y means a marijuana producer or marijuana processor that is 
issued a permit under this section.
(2)  PERMIT  REQUIRED .  (a)  No person may operate in this state as a marijuana 
producer or marijuana processor without a permit from the department.  A person 
that acts as a marijuana producer and a marijuana processor shall obtain a 
separate permit for each activity.  A permit issued under this section is not 
transferable from one person to another or from one premises to another.  A 
separate permit is required for each place in this state where the operations of a 
marijuana producer or marijuana processor occur.  A person is not required to 
obtain a permit under this section if the person produces or processes only 
industrial hemp and holds a valid license under s. 94.55.
(b)  This subsection applies to all officers, directors, agents, and stockholders 
holding 5 percent or more of the stock of any corporation applying for a permit 
under this section.
(c)  Subject to ss. 111.321, 111.322, and 111.335, the department may not issue 
a permit under this section to any person to which any of the following applies:
1.  The person has been convicted of a violent misdemeanor, as defined in s. 
941.29 (1g) (b), at least 3 times.
2.  The person has been convicted of a violent felony, as defined in s. 941.29 
(1g) (a), unless pardoned.
3.  During the preceding 3 years, the person has been committed under s. 
51.20 for being drug dependent.
4.  The person chronically and habitually uses alcohol beverages or other 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1039 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1586
substances to the extent that their normal faculties are impaired.  A person is 
presumed to chronically and habitually use alcohol beverages or other substances to 
the extent that their normal faculties are impaired if, within the preceding 3 years, 
any of the following applies:
a.  The person has been committed for involuntary treatment under s. 51.45 
(13).
b.  The person has been convicted of a violation of s. 941.20 (1) (b).
c.  In 2 or more cases arising out of separate incidents, a court has found the 
person to have committed a violation of s. 346.63 or a local ordinance in conformity 
with s. 346.63; a violation of a law of a federally recognized American Indian tribe 
or band in this state in conformity with s. 346.63; or a violation of the law of another 
jurisdiction, as defined in s. 340.01 (41m), that prohibits use of a motor vehicle 
while intoxicated, while under the influence of a controlled substance, a controlled 
substance analog, or a combination thereof, with an excess or specified range of 
alcohol concentration, or while under the influence of any drug to a degree that 
renders the person incapable of safely driving, as those or substantially similar 
terms are used in that jurisdiction [s laws.
5.  The person has income that comes principally from gambling or has been 
convicted of 2 or more gambling offenses.
6.  The person has been convicted of crimes relating to prostitution.
7.  The person has been convicted of crimes relating to loaning money or 
anything of value to persons holding licenses or permits pursuant to ch. 125.
8.  The person is under the age of 21.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1040 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1586
9.  The person has not been a resident of this state continuously for at least 90 
days prior to the application date.
(cm)  An applicant with 20 or more employees may not receive a permit under 
this section unless the applicant certifies to the department that the applicant has 
entered into a labor peace agreement and will abide by the terms of the agreement 
as a condition of maintaining a valid permit under this section.  The applicant shall 
submit to the department a copy of the page of the labor peace agreement that 
contains the signatures of the labor organization representative and the applicant.
(cn)  The department shall use a competitive scoring system to determine 
which applicants are eligible to receive a permit under this section.  The 
department shall issue permits to the highest scoring applicants that it determines 
will best protect the environment; provide stable, family-supporting jobs to local 
residents; ensure worker and consumer safety; operate secure facilities; and uphold 
the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate.  The department may deny a 
permit to an applicant with a low score as determined under this paragraph.  The 
department may request that the applicant provide any information or 
documentation that the department deems necessary for purposes of making a 
determination under this paragraph.
(d) 1.  Before the department issues a new or renewed permit under this 
section, the department shall give notice of the permit application to the governing 
body of the municipality where the permit applicant intends to operate the 
premises of a marijuana producer or marijuana processor.  No later than 30 days 
after the department submits the notice, the governing body of the municipality 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1041 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1586
may file with the department a written objection to granting or renewing the 
permit.  At the municipality [s request, the department may extend the period for 
filing objections.
2.  A written objection filed under subd. 1. shall provide all the facts on which 
the objection is based.  In determining whether to grant or deny a permit for which 
an objection has been filed under this paragraph, the department shall give 
substantial weight to objections from a municipality based on chronic illegal 
activity associated with the premises for which the applicant seeks a permit or the 
premises of any other operation in this state for which the applicant holds or has 
held a valid permit or license, the conduct of the applicant [s patrons inside or 
outside the premises of any other operation in this state for which the applicant 
holds or has held a valid permit or license, and local zoning ordinances.  In this 
subdivision, Xchronic illegal activity Y means a pervasive pattern of activity that 
threatens the public health, safety, and welfare of the municipality, including any 
crime or ordinance violation, and that is documented in crime statistics, police 
reports, emergency medical response data, calls for service, field data, or similar 
law enforcement agency records.
(e)  After denying a permit, the department shall immediately notify the 
applicant in writing of the denial and the reasons for the denial.  After making a 
decision to grant or deny a permit for which a municipality has filed an objection 
under par. (d), the department shall immediately notify the governing body of the 
municipality in writing of its decision and the reasons for the decision.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1042 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1586
(f) 1.  The department [s denial of a permit under this section is subject to 
judicial review under ch. 227.
2.  The department [s decision to grant a permit under this section regardless 
of an objection filed under par. (d) is subject to judicial review under ch. 227.
(g)  The department may not issue a permit under this section to any person 
that does not hold a valid certificate under s. 73.03 (50).
(3)  FEES; TERM .  (a)  Each person that applies for a permit under this section 
shall submit with the application a $250 fee.  A permit issued under this section is 
valid for one year and may be renewed, except that the department may revoke or 
suspend a permit prior to its expiration.  A person is not entitled to a refund of the 
fees paid under this subsection if the person [s permit is denied, revoked, or 
suspended.
(b)  A permittee shall annually pay to the department a fee for as long as the 
person holds a valid permit under this section.  The annual fee for a marijuana 
processor permittee is $2,000.  The annual fee for a marijuana producer permittee 
is one of the following, unless the department, by rule, establishes a higher amount:
1.  If the permittee plants, grows, cultivates, or harvests not more than 1,800 
marijuana plants, $1,800.
2.  If the permittee plants, grows, cultivates, or harvests more than 1,800 but 
not more than 3,600 marijuana plants, $2,900.
3.  If the permittee plants, grows, cultivates, or harvests more than 3,600 but 
not more than 6,000 marijuana plants, $3,600.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1043 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1586
4.  If the permittee plants, grows, cultivates, or harvests more than 6,000 but 
not more than 10,200 marijuana plants, $5,100.
5.  If the permittee plants, grows, cultivates, or harvests more than 10,200 
marijuana plants, $7,100 plus $800 for every 3,600 marijuana plants over 10,200.
(4)  SCHOOLS .  The department may not issue a permit under this section to 
operate any premises that is within 500 feet of the perimeter of the grounds of any 
elementary or secondary school, playground, recreation facility, child care facility, 
public park, public transit facility, or library.
(5)  EDUCATION  AND AWARENESS  CAMPAIGN .  The department shall develop 
and make available training programs for marijuana producers on how to safely 
and efficiently plant, grow, cultivate, harvest, and otherwise handle marijuana, and 
for marijuana processors on how to safely and efficiently produce and handle 
marijuana products and test marijuana for contaminants.  The department shall 
conduct an awareness campaign to inform potential marijuana producers and 
marijuana processors of the availability and viability of marijuana as a crop or 
product in this state.
(6)  RULES .  The department shall promulgate rules necessary to administer 
and enforce this section, including rules relating to the inspection of the plants, 
facilities, and products of permittees; training requirements for employees of 
permittees; and the competitive scoring system under sub. (2) (cn).
(7)  PENALTIES .  (a)  Unless another penalty is prescribed for the violation, any 
person that violates sub. (2), fails to pay the required fee under sub. (3), or violates 
any requirement established by the rules promulgated under sub. (6) shall be fined 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1044 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1586
not less than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 6 months or 
both.
(b)  In addition to the penalties imposed under par. (a), the department shall 
revoke the permit of any person convicted of any violation described under par. (a) 
and may not issue another permit to that person for a period of 2 years following the 
revocation.  The department may suspend or revoke the permit of any permittee 
that violates s. 100.30, any provision of this section, or any rules promulgated under 
sub. (6).  The department shall revoke the permit of any permittee who violates s. 
100.30 3 or more times within a 5-year period.
SECTION  1587 .  94.57 of the statutes is created to read:
94.57   Testing laboratories.   The department shall register entities as 
tetrahydrocannabinols testing laboratories.  A registered laboratory may possess or 
manufacture tetrahydrocannabinols or drug paraphernalia and shall perform the 
following services:
(1)  Test marijuana produced for the medical use of tetrahydrocannabinols for 
potency and for mold, fungus, pesticides, and other contaminants.
(2)  Collect information on research findings and conduct research related to 
the medical use of tetrahydrocannabinols, including research that identifies 
potentially unsafe levels of contaminants.
(3)  Provide training on the following:
(a)  The safe and efficient cultivation, harvesting, packaging, labeling, and 
distribution of marijuana for the medical use of tetrahydrocannabinols.
(b)  Security and inventory accountability procedures.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1045 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1587
(c)  The most recent research on the use of tetrahydrocannabinols.
SECTION  1588 .  97.26 of the statutes is created to read:
97.26   Labeling of food product as milk.   (1)  PROHIBITION .  No person may 
label a food product as, or sell or offer for sale a food product that is labeled as, any 
type of XmilkY unless the food product is at least one of the following:
(a)  Milk, lowfat milk, skim milk, or nonfat dry milk.
(b)  A product described in 21 CFR 131.110 to 131.147.
(c)  Hooved or camelid mammals [ milk, as defined in s. 97.20 (1) (fm).
(2)  RULES .  The department shall promulgate rules to implement this section.
SECTION  1589 .  97.265 of the statutes is created to read:
97.265   Labeling food as a type of dairy product.   (1)  DAIRY PRODUCTS .  
No person may label a food product as, or sell or offer for sale a food product that is 
labeled as, a type of dairy product described in s. 97.20 (1) (b) 3. to 5. or a similar 
term unless the food product is a dairy product, as defined in s. 97.20 (1) (b).
(2)  DAIRY INGREDIENTS .  No person may label a food product as, or sell or offer 
for sale a food product that is labeled as, a type of dairy ingredient unless the food 
product is derived from at least one of the following:
(a)  Milk, lowfat milk, skim milk, or nonfat dry milk.
(b)  A product described in 21 CFR 131.110 to 131.147.
(c)  Hooved or camelid mammals [ milk, as defined in s. 97.20 (1) (fm).
(3)  RULES .  The department shall promulgate rules to implement this section.
SECTION  1590 .  97.57 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
97.57 (4)  No person may sell or offer for sale wild rice labeled Xtraditionally 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1046 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1590
harvested Y unless the wild rice is harvested using traditional wild rice harvesting 
methods of American Indian tribes or bands, as defined by the department by rule.  
The department shall obtain the advice and recommendations of the Great Lakes 
Inter-Tribal Council, Inc., before promulgating a rule defining a traditional wild 
rice harvesting method.
SECTION  1591 .  97.59 of the statutes is amended to read:
97.59   Handling foods.   No person in charge of any public eating place or 
other establishment where food products to be consumed by others are handled may 
knowingly employ any person handling food products who has a disease in a form 
that is communicable by food handling.  If required by the local health officer or any 
officer of the department for the purposes of an investigation, any person who is 
employed in the handling of foods or is suspected of having a disease in a form that 
is communicable by food handling shall submit to an examination by the officer or 
by a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber designated by the officer.  The expense of the examination, if any, shall 
be paid by the person examined.  Any person knowingly infected with a disease in a 
form that is communicable by food handling who handles food products to be 
consumed by others and any persons knowingly employing or permitting such a 
person to handle food products to be consumed by others shall be punished as 
provided by s. 97.72.
SECTION  1592 .  100.145 of the statutes is created to read:
100.145   Recreational marijuana logotype.   The department shall design 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1047 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1592
an official logotype appropriate for including on a label affixed to recreational 
marijuana under s. 139.973 (10) (a).
SECTION  1593 .  100.2091 of the statutes is created to read:
100.2091   Broadband; discrimination prohibited.   (1)  No broadband 
service provider may deny access to broadband service to any group of potential 
residential customers because of the race or income of the residents in the area in 
which the group resides.
(2)  It is a defense to an alleged violation of sub. (1) based on income if, no later 
than 3 years after the date on which the broadband service provider began 
providing broadband service in this state, at least 30 percent of the households with 
access to the broadband service provider [s broadband service in the area in which a 
group of potential residential customers resides are low-income households.
(3)  The department may enforce this section and may promulgate rules to 
implement and administer this section, including rules that define low-income 
households, and to align department rules with federal communications 
commission broadband rules.  The department of justice may represent the 
department in an action to enforce this section.  If the court finds that a broadband 
service provider has not complied with this section, the court shall order the 
broadband service provider to comply with this section within a reasonable amount 
of time and, notwithstanding s. 814.14 (1), shall award costs, including reasonable 
attorney fees, to the department of justice.
(4)  Any person that is affected by a failure to comply with this section may 
bring an action to enforce this section.  If a court finds that a broadband service 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1048 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1593
provider has not complied with this section, the court shall order the broadband 
service provider to comply with this section within a reasonable amount of time 
and, notwithstanding s. 814.14 (1), shall award costs, including reasonable attorney 
fees, to the person affected.
SECTION  1594 .  100.2092 of the statutes is created to read:
100.2092   Broadband service subscriber rights.   (1)  RIGHTS .  (a)  A 
broadband service provider shall repair broadband service within 72 hours after a 
subscriber reports a service interruption or requests the repair if the service 
interruption is not the result of a major system-wide or large area emergency, such 
as a natural disaster.
(b)  Upon notification by a subscriber of a service interruption, a broadband 
service provider shall give the subscriber a credit for one day of broadband service 
if broadband service is interrupted for more than 4 hours in one day and the 
interruption is caused by the broadband service provider.
(c)  Upon notification by a subscriber of a service interruption, a broadband 
service provider shall give the subscriber a credit for each hour that broadband 
service is interrupted if broadband service is interrupted for more than 4 hours in 
one day and the interruption is not caused by the broadband service provider.
(d)  Prior to entering into a service agreement with a subscriber, a broadband 
service provider shall disclose that a subscriber has a right to a credit for notifying 
the broadband service provider of a service interruption.
(e)  A broadband service provider shall provide broadband service that 
satisfies minimum standards established by the department by rule.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1049 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1594
(f)  A broadband service provider shall give a subscriber at least 30 days [ 
advance written notice before instituting a rate increase.
(g)  A broadband service provider shall give a subscriber at least 7 days [ 
advance written notice of any scheduled routine maintenance that causes a service 
slowdown, interruption, or outage.
(h)  A broadband service provider shall give a subscriber at least 10 days [ 
advance written notice of disconnecting service, unless the disconnection is 
requested by the subscriber.
(i)  Prior to entering into a service agreement with a subscriber, a broadband 
service provider shall disclose the factors that may cause the actual broadband 
speed experience to vary, including the number of users and device limitations.
(j)  A broadband service provider shall provide broadband service to a 
subscriber as described in point-of-sale advertisements and representations made 
to the subscriber.
(k)  A broadband service provider shall give a subscriber at least 10 days [ 
advance written notice of a change in a factor that may cause the originally 
disclosed broadband speed experience to vary.
(L)  A broadband service provider shall allow a subscriber to terminate a 
contract and receive a full refund without fees if the provider sells a service that 
does not satisfy the requirements established under par. (e) and the broadband 
service provider does not satisfy the requirements established under par. (e) within 
one month of written notification from the subscriber.
(2)  ADVERTISING .  A broadband service provider shall disclose the factors that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1050 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1594
may cause the actual broadband speed experience of a subscriber to vary, including 
the number of users and device limitations, in each advertisement of the speed of 
the provider [s service, including in all of the following types of advertisements:
(a)  Television and other commercials.
(b)  Internet and email advertisements.
(c)  Print advertisements and bill inserts.
(d)  Any other advertising method or solicitation for the sale of new or 
upgraded broadband service.
(3)  R ULES .  The department may promulgate rules to implement and 
administer this section, including rules to align department rules with federal 
communications commission broadband rules.
(4)  PENALTY ; ENFORCEMENT .  (a)  A person who violates this section may be 
required to forfeit not more than $1,000 for each violation and not more than 
$10,000 for each occurrence.  Failure to give a notice required under sub. (1) (f) to 
more than one subscriber shall be considered one violation.
(b)  The department or a district attorney may institute civil proceedings 
under this section.
SECTION  1595 .  100.306 of the statutes is created to read:
100.306   Prohibited selling practices upon the occurrence of a severe 
thunderstorm.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XConsumer goods or services Y means goods or services that are used 
primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
(b)  XRestoration and mitigation services provider Y means a person that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1051 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1595
provides a service to prevent further damage or provide protection to property 
following a fire, smoke, water, or storm event.
(c)  XSevere thunderstorm Y means a weather event in which any of the 
following occurs:
1.  Hail that is one inch or greater in diameter.
2.  Wind gusts in excess of 50 knots.
3.  A tornado.
(2)  PROHIBITION .  Upon the occurrence of a severe thunderstorm, a residential 
building contractor, tree trimmer, or restoration and mitigation services provider 
operating within the geographic region impacted by the severe thunderstorm and 
repairing damage caused by the severe thunderstorm may not do any of the 
following:
(a)  Charge an unreasonably excessive price for labor in comparison to the 
market price charged for comparable services in the geographic region impacted by 
the severe thunderstorm.
(b)  Charge an insurance company a rate for a consumer good or service that 
exceeds what the residential building contractor, tree trimmer, or restoration and 
mitigation services provider would otherwise charge a member of the general public 
for the consumer good or service.
(3)  RULES .  The department shall promulgate rules to establish formulas or 
other standards to be used in determining whether a price for labor is unreasonably 
excessive under sub. (2) (a).
(4)  ENFORCEMENT ; PENALTY .  If a person violates sub. (2), the department or, 
after consulting with the department, the department of justice may commence an 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1052 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1595
action against a person in the name of the state to recover a civil forfeiture of not 
more than $1,000 per violation or to temporarily or permanently restrain or enjoin 
the person from violating sub. (2), or both. 
SECTION  1596 .  101.91 (5m) of the statutes is amended to read:
101.91 (5m)   XManufactured home community Y means any plot or plots of 
ground upon which 3 or more manufactured homes that are occupied for dwelling or 
sleeping purposes are located.  XManufactured home community Y does not include a 
farm where the occupants of the manufactured homes are the father, mother, son, 
daughter, brother or sister parents, children, or siblings of the farm owner or 
operator or where the occupants of the manufactured homes work on the farm.
SECTION  1597 .  102.07 (5) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
102.07 (5) (b)  The parents, spouse, child, brother, sister, son-in-law, daughter-
in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law parent-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law of 
a farmer shall not be deemed the farmer [s employees.
SECTION  1598 .  102.07 (5) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
102.07 (5) (c)  A shareholder-employee of a family farm corporation shall be 
deemed a XfarmerY for purposes of this chapter and shall not be deemed an 
employee of a farmer.  A Xfamily farm corporation Y means a corporation engaged in 
farming all of whose shareholders are related as lineal ancestors or lineal 
descendants, whether by blood or by adoption, or as spouses, brothers, sisters, 
uncles, aunts, cousins, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, fathers-in-law, mothers-in-
law parents-in-law, brothers-in-law, or sisters-in-law of such lineal ancestors or 
lineal descendants.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1053 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1599
SECTION  1599 .  102.125 (1m) of the statutes is created to read:
102.125 (1m)   APPLICATION  AND PREMIUM  FRAUD .  If an insurer has evidence 
that an application for worker [s compensation insurance coverage is fraudulent or 
that an employer has committed fraud by misclassifying employees to lower the 
employer [s worker [s compensation insurance premiums in violation of s. 943.395, 
the insurer shall report the claim to the department.  The department may require 
an insurer to investigate an allegedly fraudulent application or alleged fraud by 
misclassification of employees and may provide the insurer with any records of the 
department relating to that alleged fraud.  An insurer that investigates alleged 
fraud under this subsection shall report the results of that investigation to the 
department.
SECTION  1600 .  102.125 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
102.125 (2)  ASSISTANCE  BY DEPARTMENT  OF JUSTICE .  The department of 
workforce development may request the department of justice to assist the 
department of workforce development in an investigation under sub. (1) or (1m) or 
in the investigation of any other suspected fraudulent activity on the part of an 
employer, employee, insurer, health care provider, or other person related to 
worker[s compensation.
SECTION  1601 .  102.125 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
102.125 (3)  PROSECUTION .  If based on an investigation under sub. (1), (1m), 
or (2) the department has a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of s. 943.20, 
943.38, 943.39, 943.392, 943.395, 943.40, or any other criminal law has occurred, 
the department shall refer the results of the investigation to the department of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1054 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1601
justice or to the district attorney of the county in which the alleged violation 
occurred for prosecution.
SECTION  1602 .  102.16 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
102.16 (4)  The department and the division have jurisdiction to pass on any 
question arising out of sub. (3) and to order the employer to reimburse an employee 
or other person for any sum deducted from wages or paid by him or her in violation 
of that subsection.  In addition to the any penalty provided in s. 102.85 (1), any 
employer violating sub. (3) shall be liable to an injured employee for the reasonable 
value of the necessary services rendered to that employee under any arrangement 
made in violation of sub. (3) without regard to that employee [s actual 
disbursements for those services.
SECTION  1603 .  102.17 (9) (a) 1. of the statutes is renumbered 102.17 (9) (a) 
1m. and amended to read:
102.17 (9) (a) 1m.  XFire fighter Y means any person employed on a full-time 
basis by the state or any political subdivision as a member or officer of a fire 
department, including the 1st class cities and state fire marshal and deputies, or an 
individual who volunteers as a member or officer of a fire department.
SECTION  1604 .  102.17 (9) (a) 1c. of the statutes is created to read:
102.17 (9) (a) 1c.  XCorrectional officer Y has the meaning given in s. 102.475 
(8) (a).
SECTION  1605 .  102.17 (9) (a) 1e. of the statutes is created to read:
102.17 (9) (a) 1e.  XEmergency medical responder Y has the meaning given in s. 
256.01 (4p).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1055 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1606
SECTION  1606 .  102.17 (9) (a) 1g. of the statutes is created to read:
102.17 (9) (a) 1g.  XEmergency medical services practitioner Y has the meaning 
given in s. 256.01 (5).
SECTION  1607 .  102.17 (9) (a) 1p. of the statutes is created to read:
102.17 (9) (a) 1p.  XMedicolegal investigation staff member Y includes a chief 
deputy coroner, a deputy coroner, a deputy medical examiner, and any individual 
who assists the office of a coroner or medical examiner with an investigation of a 
death.  XMedicolegal investigation staff member Y does not include an individual 
performing solely administrative functions in the office of a coroner or medical 
examiner.
SECTION  1608 .  102.17 (9) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
102.17 (9) (b) (intro.)  Subject to par. (c), in the case of a mental injury that is 
not accompanied by a physical injury and that results in a diagnosis of post-
traumatic stress disorder in a law enforcement officer, as defined in s. 23.33 (1) (ig), 
an emergency medical responder, an emergency services practitioner, a correctional 
officer, a public safety answering point dispatcher, a coroner, a medical examiner, a 
medicolegal investigation staff member, or a fire fighter, the claim for compensation 
for the mental injury, in order to be compensable under this chapter, is subject to all 
of the following:
SECTION  1609 .  102.43 (9) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
102.43 (9) (e)  The employee [s employment with the employer has been 
suspended or terminated due to misconduct, as defined in s. 108.04 (5), or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1056 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1609
substantial fault, as defined in s. 108.04 (5g) (a), by the employee connected with 
the employee [s work.
SECTION  1610 .  102.75 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
102.75 (1m)   The moneys collected under subs. (1) and (1g) and under ss. 
102.28 (2) and 102.31 (7), together with all accrued interest, shall constitute a 
separate nonlapsible fund designated as the worker [s compensation operations 
fund.  Moneys in the fund may be expended only as provided in ss. 20.427 (1) (ra) 
and 20.445 (1) (ra), (rb), and (rp) (rr) and may not be used for any other purpose of 
the state.
SECTION  1611 .  102.81 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
102.81 (2)  The department may retain an insurance carrier or insurance 
service organization to process, investigate and pay claims under this section and 
may obtain excess or stop-loss reinsurance with an insurance carrier authorized to 
do business in this state in an amount that the secretary determines is necessary 
for the sound operation of the uninsured employers fund.  In cases involving 
disputed claims, the department may retain an attorney to represent the interests 
of the uninsured employers fund and to make appearances on behalf of the 
uninsured employers fund in proceedings under ss. 102.16 to 102.29.  Section 
20.930 and all provisions of subch. IV of ch. 16 do not apply to an attorney hired 
under this subsection.  The charges for the services retained under this subsection 
shall be paid from the appropriation under s. 20.445 (1) (rp) (ra).  The cost of any 
reinsurance obtained under this subsection shall be paid from the appropriation 
under s. 20.445 (1) (sm).
SECTION  1612 .  102.82 (2) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1057 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1612
102.82 (2) (a) (intro.)  Except as provided in pars. (ag), (am), and (ar), all for a 
first or 2nd determination by the department that an employer was uninsured, an 
uninsured employers employer shall pay to the department the greater of the 
following:
SECTION  1613 .  102.82 (2) (ab) of the statutes is created to read:
102.82 (2) (ab)  Except as provided in pars. (ag), (am), and (ar), for a 3rd 
determination by the department that an employer was uninsured, an uninsured 
employer shall pay to the department the greater of the following:
1.  Three times the amount determined by the department to equal what the 
uninsured employer would have paid during periods of illegal nonpayment for 
worker[s compensation in the preceding 3-year period, based on the employer [s 
payroll in the preceding 3 years.
2.  Three thousand dollars.
SECTION  1614 .  102.82 (2) (ad) of the statutes is created to read:
102.82 (2) (ad)  Except as provided in pars. (ag), (am), and (ar), for a 4th or 
subsequent determination by the department that an employer was uninsured, an 
uninsured employer shall pay to the department the greater of the following:
1.  Four times the amount determined by the department to equal what the 
uninsured employer would have paid during periods of illegal nonpayment for 
worker[s compensation in the preceding 3-year period, based on the employer [s 
payroll in the preceding 3 years.
2.  Four thousand dollars.
SECTION  1615 .  102.82 (2) (am) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1058 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1615
102.82 (2) (am)  The department may waive any payment owed under par. (a), 
(ab), or (ad) by an uninsured employer if the department determines that the 
uninsured employer is subject to this chapter only because the uninsured employer 
has elected to become subject to this chapter under s. 102.05 (2) or 102.28 (2).
SECTION  1616 .  102.82 (2) (ar) of the statutes is amended to read:
102.82 (2) (ar)  The department may waive any payment owed under par. (a), 
(ab), (ad), or (ag) or sub. (1) if the department determines that the sole reason for 
the uninsured employer [s failure to comply with s. 102.28 (2) is that the uninsured 
employer was a victim of fraud, misrepresentation or gross negligence by an 
insurance agent or insurance broker or by a person whom a reasonable person 
would believe is an insurance agent or insurance broker.
SECTION  1617 .  102.85 (1) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
102.85 (1) (a)  If an employer has failed to comply with s. 102.16 (3) or 102.28 
(2), the employer shall, for a first violation, forfeit the greater of $1,000 or the 
amount of the premium that would have been payable for each time the employer 
failed to comply with s. 102.16 (3) or 102.28 (2).
(b)  If an employer has failed to comply with s. 102.16 (3) or 102.28 (2), the 
employer shall, for a 2nd violation, forfeit the greater of $2,000 or 2 times the 
amount of the premium that would have been payable for each time the employer 
failed to comply with s. 102.16 (3) or 102.28 (2).
(c)  If an employer has failed to comply with s. 102.16 (3) or 102.28 (2), the 
employer shall, for a 3rd violation, forfeit the greater of $3,000 or 3 times the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1059 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1617
amount of the premium that would have been payable for each time the employer 
failed to comply with s. 102.16 (3) or 102.28 (2).
(d)  If an employer has failed to comply with s. 102.16 (3) or 102.28 (2), the 
employer shall, for a 4th or subsequent violation, forfeit the greater of $4,000 or 4 
times the amount of the premium that would have been payable for each time the 
employer failed to comply with s. 102.16 (3) or 102.28 (2).
SECTION  1618 .  102.85 (2) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
102.85 (2) (a)  No employer who is required to provide worker [s compensation 
insurance coverage under this chapter may give false information about the 
coverage to his or her employees, the department, or any other person who contracts 
with the employer and who requests evidence of worker [s compensation in relation 
to that contract.
(b)  No employer who is required to provide worker [s compensation insurance 
coverage under this chapter may fail to notify a person who contracts with the 
employer that the coverage has been canceled in relation to that contract.
(c) 1.  An employer who violates par. (a) or (b) shall, except as provided in 
subds. 2. and 3., forfeit not less than $100 and not more than $1,000.
2.  An employer who violates par. (a) or (b) shall forfeit $3,000 for a 3rd 
violation of par. (a) or (b).
3.  An employer who violates par. (a) or (b) shall forfeit $4,000 for a 4th 
violation of par. (a) or (b).
SECTION  1619 .  103.005 (12) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.005 (12) (a)  If any employer, employee, owner, or other person violates 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1060 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1619
chs. 103 to 106, or fails or refuses to perform any duty required under chs. 103 to 
106, within the time prescribed by the department, for which no penalty has been 
specifically provided, or fails, neglects or refuses to obey any lawful order given or 
made by the department or any judgment or decree made by any court in connection 
with chs. 103 to 106, for each such violation, failure or refusal, the employer, 
employee, owner or other person shall forfeit not less than $10 nor more than $100 
for each offense.  This paragraph does not apply to any person that fails to provide 
any information to the department to assist the department in determining 
prevailing wage rates or prevailing hours of labor under s. 103.49 (3) (a) or (am) or 
103.50 (3) or (4).
SECTION  1620 .  103.007 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1621 .  103.035 of the statutes is created to read:
103.035   Work schedule flexibility and predictability.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  
In this section:
(a)  XBona fide business reason Y means a reason that justifies an employer [s 
action and that is based on the employer [s determination that taking a different 
action would have any of the following results:
1.  Additional costs to the employer, including costs of lost employee 
productivity, retaining or hiring employees, or transferring employees between 
work locations.
2.  A significant detrimental effect on the employer [s ability to meet 
organizational needs or customer demand.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1061 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
3.  A significant inability of the employer, despite the employer [s best efforts, to 
reorganize work among other employees.
4.  A significant detrimental effect on the employer [s business performance.
5.  Insufficient work during the period an employee proposes to work.
6.  Unfairness to other employees who request changes to work schedules if 
granting all requests would have a significant detrimental effect on the employer [s 
ability to meet organizational needs.
(b)  XChildY means an individual who is all of the following:
1.  A biological, adopted, or foster child; a stepchild; a legal ward; or a child of 
a person standing in the place of a parent with respect to that child.
2.  An individual to whom any of the following applies:
a.  The individual is less than 18 years of age.
b.  The individual is 18 years of age or older and is incapable of self-care 
because of a mental or physical disability.
(c)  XDomestic partner Y has the meaning given in s. 40.02 (21c) or 770.01 (1).
(d)  XEmployee Y means an employee who is employed by an employer.
(e)  XEmployer Y means an employer that employs at least 15 employees.  
XEmployer Y includes the state, its political subdivisions, and any office, 
department, independent agency, authority, institution, association, society, or 
other body in state or local government created or authorized to be created by the 
constitution or any law, including the legislature and the courts.
(f)  XFamily member Y means any of the following:
1.  A spouse or domestic partner of an employee.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1062 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
2.  A parent, child, sibling, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, or 
grandchild of an employee or of an employee [s spouse or domestic partner.
3.  Any other individual who is related by blood, marriage, or adoption to an 
employee or to an employee [s spouse or domestic partner and whose close 
association with the employee, spouse, or domestic partner makes the individual 
the equivalent of an individual listed under subd. 2.
(g)  XGrandchild Y means the child of a child.
(h)  XGrandparent Y means the parent of a parent.
(i)  XNonexempt employee Y means an employee who is not employed in a bona 
fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity, as described in 29 USC 213 
(a) (1).
(j)  XParentY means a biological parent, foster parent, adoptive parent, 
stepparent, or legal guardian of an employee or of an employee [s spouse or domestic 
partner.
(k)  XPart-time employee Y means an employee who works on average fewer 
than 30 hours per week for a particular employer.
(L)  XService employee Y means a nonexempt employee who is employed in any 
of the occupations classified under the following codes set forth in the Standard 
Occupational Classification System, 2018 edition, published by the bureau of labor 
statistics of the U.S. department of labor:
1.  Major group code 35-0000  food preparation and serving related 
occupations.
2.  Broad occupation code 37-2010  building cleaning workers.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1063 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
3.  Detailed occupation code 41-1011  first-line supervisors of retail sales 
workers.
4.  Minor group code 41-2000  retail sales workers.
(m)  XSiblingY means a brother, sister, half brother, half sister, stepbrother, 
stepsister, foster brother, or foster sister, whether by blood, marriage, or adoption.
(n)  XSplit shift Y means a work shift that consists of work time that is not 
continuous.  For purposes of determining whether a work shift is continuous, any of 
the following breaks in work time are not considered:
1.  One or more breaks for meals that total one hour or less.
2.  A break that is requested by the employee.
(o)  XWork schedule Y means the days and times during each successive work 
period when an employee is required by an employer to perform duties of 
employment.
(p)  XWork shift Y means the specific times during a day that an employer 
requires an employee to work.
(q)  XWrittenY includes a communication that is transmitted or received by 
electronic means.
(2)  EMPLOYEE  RIGHT  TO REQUEST  AND RECEIVE  WORK  SCHEDULE  CHANGES .  (a)  
Employee right to request work schedule changes.   1.  An employee may request a 
change in the terms and conditions of employment related to any of the following, 
and may make such a request by email or text message:
a.  The number of hours the employee is required to work or be on call for work.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1064 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
b.  The days or times when the employee is required to work or be on call for 
work.
c.  The location where the employee is required to work.
d.  The amount of notification the employee receives regarding changes to the 
employee [s work schedule.
e.  Minimizing fluctuations in the number of hours the employee is scheduled 
to work on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis.
2.  An employee who makes a request under subd. 1. shall specify in the 
request whether it is related to any of the following:
a.  A serious health condition, as defined under s. 103.10 (1) (g), of the 
employee.
b.  The employee [s responsibilities as a significant provider of ongoing care, 
including responsibility for securing ongoing care, of the employee [s child, family 
member with a serious health condition, as defined under s. 103.10 (1) (g), or parent 
who is 65 years of age or older.
c.  The employee [s responsibilities as a significant provider of education, 
including responsibility for securing education, of the employee [s child.
d.  The employee [s enrollment in an educational or training program or 
program of study that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential.
e.  If the employee is a part-time employee, conflicts with the employee [s other 
employment.
(b)  Evaluating requests for work schedule changes.   If an employer receives a 
request from an employee under par. (a), the employer shall either grant the request 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1065 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
without modification or negotiate in good faith with the employee to find a 
compromise that meets the employee [s and the employer [s work scheduling needs, 
including by considering any alternative proposals offered by the employee.  If the 
employer denies the request and any alternative proposals offered, the employer 
shall inform the employee of the reasons for denial, including whether any of the 
reasons is a bona fide business reason.
(c)  Requests related to serious health conditions, caregiving, education, or other 
part-time employment.   Notwithstanding par. (b), if an employer receives a request 
from an employee under par. (a) that is directly related to a reason specified under 
par. (a) 2., the employer shall grant the request unless the employer has a bona fide 
business reason for denying the request.
(d)  Verification of reasons for requested changes.   If an employer receives a 
request from an employee under par. (a), the employer may require the employee to 
provide additional information to clarify or explain the reasons for the employee [s 
requested work schedule change if the employer needs that information to properly 
evaluate the request under par. (b) or (c).
(3)  PREDICTABLE  WORK  SCHEDULES  FOR RETAIL , FOOD  SERVICE , AND CLEANING  
EMPLOYEES .  (a)  Advance notice of work schedules required.   1.  On or before the first 
day of work of a new service employee, an employer shall provide the service 
employee with a written copy of the service employee [s work schedule.
2.  Except as provided in pars. (b) and (c), if an employer changes a work 
schedule provided to a service employee under this subdivision or subd. 1., the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1066 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
employer shall provide the service employee with a written copy of the new work 
schedule no later than 14 days before the new work schedule begins.
3.  An employer shall post a copy of a work schedule provided under this 
paragraph in at least one of the following ways:
a.  In one or more conspicuous places where notices to employees are 
customarily posted.
b.  On a website accessible by all of the employer [s employees.
4.  If an employer changes a work schedule after it is posted under subd. 3., the 
employer shall revise the posted work schedule to reflect those changes.
(b)  Employer-initiated changes to work schedules without advance notice.   1.  
An employer may change, without the advance notice required under par. (a) 2., a 
work schedule provided to a service employee under par. (a) 1. or 2. as provided in 
this paragraph.  Except as provided under subd. 2., if the employer changes a work 
schedule provided to a service employee under par. (a) 1. or 2. less than 14 days 
before the new work schedule begins, the employer shall provide the service 
employee compensation for the change in an amount equal to the service employee [s 
regular rate of pay for one hour of work in addition to any other compensation 
earned by the service employee.
2.  An employer is not required to pay compensation to a service employee 
under subd. 1. for a change to the service employee [s work schedule if any of the 
following applies to the change:
a.  The service employee consents to the change.
b.  The employer requires the service employee to work additional time or an 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1067 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
additional work shift because another service employee was scheduled to work that 
time or work shift and is unexpectedly unavailable to work.
(c)  Employee-initiated changes to work schedules.   An employer may allow a 
service employee to agree to work in place of another service employee if the service 
employees mutually agree to the change.  The employer is not required to provide 
compensation under par. (b) 1. to a service employee with respect to a work shift 
agreement under this paragraph.
(d)  Compensation for reporting time, on-call time, and split shifts.   1.  Except 
as provided in subd. 4., if a service employee reports to work and the service 
employee [s employer does not allow the service employee to work all time that the 
service employee is scheduled to work, the employer shall provide the service 
employee with the following compensation:
a.  If the service employee is scheduled to work 4 hours or less, an amount 
equal to the service employee [s regular rate of pay for all time the service employee 
is scheduled to work but does not work in addition to any other compensation 
earned by the service employee for time the service employee actually works.
b.  If the service employee is scheduled to work more than 4 hours and works 
less than 4 hours, an amount equal to the service employee [s regular rate of pay for 
the difference between 4 hours and the amount of time the service employee 
actually works in addition to any other compensation earned by the service 
employee for time the service employee actually works.
2.  Except as provided in subd. 4., if an employer requires a service employee to 
contact the employer, or wait to be contacted by the employer, less than 24 hours 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1068 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
before a work shift begins to determine whether the employer will require the 
service employee to report to work for that work shift, the employer shall provide 
the service employee compensation in an amount equal to the service employee [s 
regular rate of pay for one hour of work in addition to any other compensation 
earned by the service employee for time the service employee actually works.
3.  Except as provided in subd. 4, if an employer requires a service employee to 
work a split shift, the employer shall provide the service employee compensation in 
an amount equal to the service employee [s regular rate of pay for one hour of work 
in addition to any other compensation earned by the service employee for time the 
service employee actually works.
4.  If a service employee is entitled to more than one type of compensation 
under subds. 1. to 3. with respect to a particular work shift, the employer shall pay 
the service employee the compensation required under subd. 1., 2., or 3., whichever 
is greatest.
(e)  Manner of payment of additional compensation.   An employer that is 
required to provide compensation to a service employee under par. (b) 1. or (d) shall 
pay that compensation on the service employee [s regular paycheck or other wage 
payment.  The employer shall identify on the paycheck, pay envelope, or paper 
accompanying the wage payment the amount of and reason for all additional 
compensation paid.
(f)  Exception.   An employer is not required to comply with this subsection 
during a period in which the employer [s regular operations are suspended due to an 
event outside of the employer [s control.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1069 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
(4)  PROHIBITED  ACTS .  (a)  No employer may interfere with, restrain, or deny 
the exercise of the right of an employee to request and receive a change in the terms 
and conditions of employment as provided under sub. (2).  No employer may 
interfere with, restrain, or deny the exercise of the right of a service employee to 
receive advance notice of work schedules as provided under sub. (3) (a), receive 
compensation as provided under sub. (3) (b) 1. and (d), or request approval to work 
in place of another employee as provided under sub. (3) (c).
(b)  No employer may discharge or discriminate against an employee in 
promotion, in compensation, or in the terms, conditions, or privileges of 
employment for exercising a right of an employee described under par. (a), opposing 
a practice prohibited under this section, filing or indicating an intent to file a 
complaint or otherwise attempting to enforce a right under this section, or 
testifying, assisting, or participating in any manner in any investigation, action, or 
proceeding to enforce a right under this section.
(c)  Section 111.322 (2m) applies to discharge or other discriminatory acts 
arising in connection with any proceeding under this section.
(5)  ENFORCEMENT .  (a)  Administrative proceeding.   An employee whose rights 
are interfered with, restrained, or denied in violation of sub. (4) (a) or who is 
discharged or discriminated against in violation of sub. (4) (b) may file a complaint 
with the department, and the department shall process the complaint in the same 
manner that employment discrimination complaints are processed under s. 111.39.  
If the department finds that a violation has occurred, the department may order 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1070 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
the employer to take action to remedy the violation, including any action authorized 
under s. 111.39.
(b)  Civil action.   1.  The department or an employee whose rights are 
interfered with, restrained, or denied in violation of sub. (4) (a) or who is discharged 
or discriminated against in violation of sub. (4) (b) may bring an action in circuit 
court against an employer on the basis of the violation without regard to exhaustion 
of any administrative remedy.
2.  In an action under subd. 1., if the circuit court finds that a violation of sub. 
(4) (a) or (b) has occurred with respect to an employee, the circuit court shall order 
the defendant to pay to the employee all of the following:
a.  Compensatory damages in an amount that the circuit court or jury finds 
appropriate.
b.  Unless the employer proves that the employer acted in good faith and had a 
reasonable basis for believing that the act or omission that constituted the violation 
was not a violation of this section, an additional amount as liquidated damages 
equal to 100 percent of the amount of compensatory damages determined under 
subd. 2. a.
c.  Notwithstanding s. 814.04 (1), reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred 
in the action.
3.  Damages awarded under subd. 2. are in addition to any back pay or other 
amounts awarded under s. 111.39 or 111.395.
(6)  PENALTIES .  In addition to any damages imposed under sub. (5), an 
employer that willfully violates this section may be required to forfeit not more than 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1071 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1621
$1,000 for each violation.  Each day of continued violation constitutes a separate 
offense.
(7)  NOTICE  POSTED .  An employer shall post, in one or more conspicuous places 
where notices to employees are customarily posted, a notice in a form approved by 
the department setting forth employees [ rights under this section.  An employer 
that violates this subsection shall forfeit not more than $100 for each violation.
SECTION  1622 .  103.06 (1) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.06 (1) (b) (intro.)  XEmployee Y means, for purposes of compliance with the 
requirements specified in sub. (3) (a), any of the following who is employed by an 
employer:
SECTION  1623 .  103.06 (1) (c) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.06 (1) (c) (intro.)  XEmployer Y means, for purposes of compliance with the 
requirements specified in sub. (3) (a), any of the following that is engaged in the 
work described in s. 108.18 (2) (c):
SECTION  1624 .  103.06 (2) of the statutes is renumbered 103.06 (10), and 
103.06 (10) (intro.) and (a), as renumbered, are amended to read:
103.06 (10)  W ORKER  CLASSIFICATION  COMPLIANCE ; DUTIES  OF DEPARTMENT .  
(intro.)  For purposes of promoting and achieving compliance by employers with the 
laws specified in sub. (3) (a) through the proper classification of persons performing 
services for an employer as employees and nonemployees, the The department shall 
do all of the following:
(a)  Educate employers, employees, nonemployees, and the public about the 
proper classification of persons performing services for an employer as employees 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1072 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1624
and nonemployees.  The department shall establish and maintain on the 
department [s website information regarding worker classification laws, 
requirements for employers and employees, penalties for noncompliance, and 
contact information at each state agency that administers worker classification 
laws.
SECTION  1625 .  103.06 (10) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
103.06 (10) (f)  Design and make available to employers a notice regarding 
worker classification laws, requirements for employers and employees, and 
penalties for noncompliance.  The department shall promulgate rules to implement 
this paragraph.
SECTION  1626 .  103.06 (11) of the statutes is created to read:
103.06 (11)  NOTICE .  All employers shall post, in one or more conspicuous 
places where notices to employees are customarily posted, the notice designed by 
the department under sub. (10) (f).  Any employer who violates this subsection shall 
forfeit not more than $100 for each offense.
SECTION  1627 .  103.08 of the statutes is created to read:
103.08   Paid family and medical leave.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XApplication year Y means the 12-month period beginning on the first day 
of the first calendar week for which leave benefits are claimed by an employee under 
this section.
(b)  XAverage weekly earnings Y means one-thirteenth of the wages paid to an 
employee during the last completed calendar quarter prior to the employee [s date of 
eligibility for leave benefits under this section and includes all sick, holiday, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1073 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1627
vacation, and termination pay that is paid directly by an employer to an employee at 
the employee [s usual rate of pay during his or her last completed calendar quarter 
as a result of employment for an employer and any total or partial disability 
payments under ch. 102 or a federal law that provides for payments on account of a 
work-related injury or illness. 
(d)  XEmployee Y has the meaning given in s. 103.10 (b), except that it does not 
include employees whose compensation is established under s. 20.923 (2) or (3) or 
230.12 (9m) or employees of the Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin 
System.
(e)  XEmployer Y has the meaning given in s. 103.10 (1) (c), except that it does 
not include any entity whose employees [ compensation is established under s. 
20.923 (2) or (3) or 230.12 (9m) or the Board of Regents of the University of 
Wisconsin System.
(f)  XFamily leave Y means leave from employment taken for any of the reasons 
under s. 103.10 (3) (b) 1. to 7.
(g)  XInsurerY means a company that issues an insurance policy to an employer 
to provide leave benefits under this section.
(h)  XLeave benefits Y means benefits provided under sub. (2).
(i)  XMedical leave Y means leave from employment taken for any of the reasons 
under s. 103.10 (4).
(2)  PAID BENEFIT  REQUIREMENT .  Each employer shall provide paid leave 
benefits to their employees for up to 8 weeks of family and medical leave in the 
amount specified in sub. (3).  Employees shall be paid leave benefits for consecutive 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1074 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1627
family and medical leave or intermittent family leave and medical leave at the 
employee [s sole discretion.
(3)  BENEFIT  AMOUNT .  The amount of leave benefits for a week for which those 
benefits are payable is as follows:
(a)  For the amount of the employee's average weekly earnings that are not 
more than 50 percent of the state annual median wage in the calendar year before 
the employee [s application year, 90 percent of that individual's average weekly 
earnings.
(b)  For the amount of the employee [s average weekly earnings that are more 
than 50 percent of the state annual median wage in the calendar year before the 
employee [s application year, 50 percent of that employee [s average weekly earnings.
(4)  INSURANCE .  (a)  An employer may contract with an insurance company to 
provide coverage for the leave benefits required under sub. (2).
(b)  Employers may not deduct any fees from employee compensation for the 
cost of insurance coverage or otherwise charge employees for the cost of insurance 
coverage under this subsection.
(c)  Insurance policies for leave benefits shall allow for employees to seek 
arbitration following a denial of leave benefits by the insurer.
(5)  FEDERAL  TAX TREATMENT  OF BENEFITS .  With respect to the federal income 
taxation of family or medical leave insurance benefits, an employer shall do all of 
the following:
(a)  At the time an individual files a claim for leave benefits, advise the 
individual that those benefits may be subject to federal income taxation, that 
requirements exist under federal law pertaining to estimated tax payments, and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1075 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1627
that the individual may elect to have federal income taxes withheld from the 
individual [s benefit payments and may change that election not more than one time 
in an application year.
(b)  Allow the individual to elect to have federal income tax deducted and 
withheld from the individual [s benefit payments, allow the individual to change 
that election not more than one time in an application year, and deduct and 
withhold that tax in accordance with the individual [s election as provided under 26 
USC 3402.  If the employer has contracted with an insurer, the employer shall 
direct the insurer to follow the provisions of this paragraph.
(6)  DENIAL  OF BENEFITS ; APPEALS .  An employer or an insurer that provides 
benefits under a policy under sub. (4) shall provide an employee with the reason for 
a denial for a claim for leave benefits whether in whole or in part, with information 
for the employee to file an appeal with the department.  An employee whose claim 
for leave benefits under this section has been denied in whole or in part by their 
employer or their employer [s insurer may file a complaint with the department 
after receiving a final denial from their employer or their employer [s insurer.  The 
department shall process the complaint in the same manner as complaints filed 
under s. 103.10 (12) (b) are processed.  If the department finds that the employer or 
insurer should have paid leave benefits, the department may order the employer or 
insurer to provide the benefits owed and, notwithstanding s. 814.04 (1), pay 
reasonable actual attorney fees to the employee.
(7)  PROHIBITED  ACTS .  (a)  No person may interfere with, restrain, or deny the 
exercise of any right provided under this section.
(b)  No person may discharge or otherwise discriminate against any person for 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1076 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1627
exercising any right provided under this section, opposing a practice prohibited 
under this section, filing a complaint or attempting to enforce any right provided 
under this section, or testifying or assisting in any action or proceeding to enforce 
any right provided under this section.
(c)  No collective bargaining agreement or employer policy may diminish or 
abridge an employee [s rights under this section.  Any agreement purporting to 
waive or modify an employee [s rights under this section is void as against public 
policy and unenforceable.
(8)  NOTICE  POSTED .  Each employer shall post, on its website and in one or 
more conspicuous places where notices to employees are customarily posted, a 
notice in a form approved by the department setting forth employees [ rights under 
this section.  Any employer that violates this subsection shall forfeit not more than 
$100 for each violation.
(9)  RULES .  The department shall promulgate rules to implement this section.
SECTION  1628 .  103.10 (1) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is renumbered 103.10 (1) 
(a) and amended to read:
103.10 (1) (a)  XChildY means a natural, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, or 
a legal ward to whom any of the following applies:.
SECTION  1629 .  103.10 (1) (a) 1. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1630 .  103.10 (1) (a) 2. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1631 .  103.10 (1) (ap) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (1) (ap)  XCovered active duty Y means any of the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1077 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1631
1.  For a member of a regular component of the U.S. armed forces, duty during 
the deployment of the member with the U.S. armed forces to a foreign country.
2.  For a member of a reserve component of the U.S. armed forces, duty during 
the deployment of the member with the U.S. armed forces to a foreign country 
under a call or order to active duty under a provision of law specified in 10 USC 101 
(a) (13) (B).
SECTION  1632 .  103.10 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (1) (b)  Except as provided in sub. (1m) (b) 2. and s. 452.38, Xemployee Y 
means an individual employed in this state by an employer, except the employer [s 
parent, child, spouse, domestic partner, or child parent, grandparent, grandchild, 
or sibling.
SECTION  1633 .  103.10 (1) (dm) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (1) (dm)  XGrandchild Y means the child of a child.
SECTION  1634 .  103.10 (1) (dp) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (1) (dp)  XGrandparent Y means the parent of a parent.
SECTION  1635 .  103.10 (1) (em) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (1) (em)  XMedical isolation Y means any of the following:
1.  When a health care professional, a local health officer, or the department of 
health services advises that an individual seclude herself or himself from others 
when the individual is awaiting the result of a diagnostic test for a communicable 
disease or when the individual is infected with a communicable disease.
2.  When a local health officer or the department of health services advises 
that an individual isolate or quarantine under s. 252.06.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1078 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1635
3.  When an individual [s employer advises that the individual not come to the 
workplace due to a concern that the individual may have been exposed to or infected 
with a communicable disease.
SECTION  1636 .  103.10 (1) (gm) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (1) (gm)  XSiblingY means a brother, sister, half brother, half sister, 
stepbrother, or stepsister, whether by blood, marriage, or adoption.
SECTION  1637 .  103.10 (1) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (1) (h)  XSpouseY means an employee [s legal husband or wife the person 
to whom an employee is legally married.
SECTION  1638 .  103.10 (1m) (b) 1. of the statutes is renumbered 103.10 (1) 
(an).
SECTION  1639 .  103.10 (1m) (b) 6. of the statutes is renumbered 103.10 (1) 
(gd).
SECTION  1640 .  103.10 (1m) (b) 7. of the statutes is renumbered 103.10 (1) (m).
SECTION  1641 .  103.10 (2) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (2) (c)  This section only applies to an employee who has been employed 
by the same employer for more than 52 consecutive weeks and who worked for the 
employer for at least 1,000 680 hours during the preceding 52-week period.
SECTION  1642 .  103.10 (3) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1643 .  103.10 (3) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (3) (b) 3.  To care for the employee [s child, spouse, domestic partner, or 
parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling, if the child, spouse, domestic partner, 
or parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling has a serious health condition.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1079 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1644
SECTION  1644 .  103.10 (3) (b) 4. of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (3) (b) 4.  Because of any qualifying exigency, as determined by the 
department by rule, arising out of the fact that the spouse, child, domestic partner, 
parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling of the employee is on covered active 
duty or has been notified of an impending call or order to covered active duty.
SECTION  1645 .  103.10 (3) (b) 5. of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (3) (b) 5.  Because there is an unforeseen or unexpected short-term gap 
in childcare for the employee [s child, grandchild, or sibling that the employee must 
fill.  The department may define by rule Xunforeseen or unexpected short-term gap 
in childcare. Y
SECTION  1646 .  103.10 (3) (b) 6. of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (3) (b) 6.  To care for the employee [s child, spouse, domestic partner, 
parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling, if the child, spouse, domestic partner, 
parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling is in medical isolation.
SECTION  1647 .  103.10 (3) (b) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (3) (b) 7.  To address issues of the employee or the employee [s child, 
spouse, domestic partner, parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling related to 
being the victim of domestic abuse, sexual abuse, or stalking.
SECTION  1648 .  103.10 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (4) (a)  Subject to pars. (b) and par. (c) and sub. (4m), an employee who 
is in medical isolation or has a serious health condition which makes the employee 
unable to perform his or her employment duties may take medical leave for the 
period during which he or she is unable to perform those duties.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1080 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1649
SECTION  1649 .  103.10 (4) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1650 .  103.10 (4m) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (4m)   DURATION  OF LEAVE .  In a 12-month period, no employee may 
take more than 8 weeks of leave for any combination of reasons specified under sub. 
(3) or (4).
SECTION  1651 .  103.10 (6) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (6) (b) (intro.)  If an employee intends to take family leave because of 
the planned medical treatment or supervision of a child, spouse, domestic partner, 
or parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling or intends to take medical leave 
because of the planned medical treatment or supervision of the employee, the 
employee shall do all of the following:
SECTION  1652 .  103.10 (6) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (6) (b) 1.  Make a reasonable effort to schedule the medical treatment 
or supervision so that it does not unduly disrupt the employer [s operations, subject 
to the approval of the health care provider of the child, spouse, domestic partner, 
parent, grandparent, grandchild, sibling, or employee.
SECTION  1653 .  103.10 (6) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (6) (c)  If the employee intends to take family leave under sub. (3) (b) 4. 
that is foreseeable because the spouse, child, domestic partner, parent, 
grandparent, grandchild, or sibling of the employee is on covered active duty or has 
been notified of an impending call or order to covered active duty, the employee shall 
provide notice of that intention to the employer in a reasonable and practicable 
manner.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1081 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1654
SECTION  1654 .  103.10 (7) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (7) (a)  If an employee requests family leave for a reason described in 
sub. (3) (b) 3. or requests medical leave due to a serious health condition, the 
employer may require the employee to provide certification, as described in par. (b), 
issued by the health care provider or Christian Science practitioner of the child, 
spouse, domestic partner, parent, grandparent, grandchild, sibling, or employee, 
whichever is appropriate.
SECTION  1655 .  103.10 (7) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (7) (b) (intro.)  No employer may require certification under par. (a) 
stating more than the following:
SECTION  1656 .  103.10 (7) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (7) (b) 1.  That the child, spouse, domestic partner, parent, 
grandparent, grandchild, sibling, or employee has a serious health condition.
SECTION  1657 .  103.10 (7) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (7) (cm)  If an employee requests family leave for a reason described in 
sub. (3) (b) 3., the employer may require the employee to provide certification that 
the employee is responsible for the care of a child, spouse, domestic partner, parent, 
grandparent, grandchild, or sibling with a serious health condition.
SECTION  1658 .  103.10 (7) (d) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (7) (d)  If an employee requests family leave under sub. (3) (b) 4., the 
employer may require the employee to provide certification that the spouse, child, 
domestic partner, parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling of the employee is on 
covered active duty or has been notified of an impending call or order to covered 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1082 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1658
active duty.  The certification under this paragraph shall be issued at such time and 
in such manner as the department may prescribe by rule, and the employee shall 
provide a copy of that certification to the employer in a timely manner.
SECTION  1659 .  103.10 (7) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (7) (e)  If an employee requests family leave under sub. (3) (b) 5., the 
employer may require the employee to provide certification that there is an 
unforeseen or unexpected short-term gap in childcare, as defined in rule by the 
department, for the employee [s child, grandchild, or sibling that the employee must 
fill.  The department may prescribe by rule the form and content of the 
certification.
SECTION  1660 .  103.10 (7) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (7) (f) 1.  If an employee requests family leave under sub. (3) (b) 6., or 
medical leave due to medical isolation, the employer may require the employee to 
provide certification issued by a local public health official, the department of 
health services, or a health care provider or Christian Science practitioner of the 
child, spouse, domestic partner, parent, grandparent, grandchild, sibling, or 
employee, whichever is appropriate, except that no employer may require 
certification under this paragraph if the sole reason for the medical isolation is due 
to the employer [s request under sub. (1) (em) 3.  No employer may require 
certification under this subdivision stating more than that the child, spouse, 
domestic partner, parent, grandparent, grandchild, sibling, or employee is in 
medical isolation.
2.  If an employee requests family leave under sub. (3) (b) 6., the employer may 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1083 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1660
require the employee to provide certification that the employee is responsible for the 
care of a child, spouse, domestic partner, parent, grandparent, grandchild, sibling, 
or employee who is in medical isolation.
SECTION  1661 .  103.10 (7) (g) of the statutes is created to read:
103.10 (7) (g)  If an employee requests family leave under sub. (3) (b) 7., the 
employer may require the employee to provide certification that the employee is 
addressing issues of the employee or the employee [s child, spouse, domestic partner, 
parent, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling related to being the victim of domestic 
abuse, sexual abuse, or stalking.
SECTION  1662 .  103.10 (10) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (10)  ALTERNATIVE  EMPLOYMENT .  Nothing in this section prohibits an 
employer and an employee with a serious health condition or in medical isolation 
from mutually agreeing to alternative employment for the employee while the 
serious health condition or medical isolation lasts.  No period of alternative 
employment, with the same employer, reduces the employee [s right to family leave 
or medical leave.
SECTION  1663 .  103.10 (12) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (12) (b)  An employee who believes his or her employer has violated sub. 
(11) (a) or (b) may, within 30 300 days after the violation occurs or the employee 
should reasonably have known that the violation occurred, whichever is later, file a 
complaint with the department alleging the violation.  Except as provided in s. 
230.45 (1m), the department shall investigate the complaint and shall attempt to 
resolve the complaint by conference, conciliation or persuasion.  If the complaint is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1084 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1663
not resolved and the department finds probable cause to believe a violation has 
occurred, the department shall proceed with notice and a hearing on the complaint 
as provided in ch. 227.  The hearing shall be held within 60 days after the 
department receives the complaint.
SECTION  1664 .  103.10 (12) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.10 (12) (c)  If 2 or more health care providers disagree about any of the 
information required to be certified under sub. (7) (b), the department may appoint 
another health care provider to examine the child, spouse, domestic partner, 
parent, grandparent, grandchild, sibling, or employee and render an opinion as 
soon as possible.  The department shall promptly notify the employee and the 
employer of the appointment.  The employer and the employee shall each pay 50 
percent of the cost of the examination and opinion.
SECTION  1665 .  103.10 (14) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 103.10 (14).
SECTION  1666 .  103.10 (14) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1667 .  103.12 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1668 .  103.165 (3) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
103.165 (3) (a) 3.  The decedent [s father or mother parent or parents if the 
decedent leaves no surviving spouse, domestic partner under ch. 770, or children.
SECTION  1669 .  103.36 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1670 .  103.44 of the statutes is created to read:
103.44   Compensation included in job postings.   In each job posting 
seeking applicants that is made by an employer, the employer shall include the 
compensation for the position.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1085 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
SECTION  1671 .  103.49 of the statutes is created to read:
103.49   Wage rate on state work.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XAreaY means the county in which a proposed project of public works that 
is subject to this section is located or, if the department determines that there is 
insufficient wage data in that county, XareaY means those counties that are 
contiguous to that county or, if the department determines that there is insufficient 
wage data in those counties, XareaY means those counties that are contiguous to 
those counties or, if the department determines that there is insufficient wage data 
in those counties, XareaY means the entire state or, if the department is requested to 
review a determination under sub. (3) (c), XareaY means the city, village, or town in 
which a proposed project of public works that is subject to this section is located.
(am)  XBona fide economic benefit Y means an economic benefit for which an 
employer makes irrevocable contributions to a trust or fund created under 29 USC 
186 (c) or to any other bona fide plan, trust, program, or fund no less often than 
quarterly or, if an employer makes annual contributions to such a bona fide plan, 
trust, program, or fund, for which the employer irrevocably escrows moneys at least 
quarterly based on the employer [s expected annual contribution.
(b)  XHourly basic rate of pay Y means the hourly wage paid to any employee, 
excluding any contributions or payments for health insurance benefits, vacation 
benefits, pension benefits, and any other bona fide economic benefits, whether paid 
directly or indirectly.
(bg)  XInsufficient wage data Y means less than 500 hours of work performed in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1086 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
a particular trade or occupation on projects that are similar to a proposed project of 
public works that is subject to this section.
(bj)  XMinor service or maintenance work Y means a project of public works that 
is limited to minor crack filling, chip or slurry sealing, or other minor pavement 
patching, not including overlays, that has a projected life span of no longer than 5 
years; cleaning of drainage or sewer ditches or structures; or any other limited, 
minor work on public facilities or equipment that is routinely performed to prevent 
breakdown or deterioration.
(br)  XMultiple-trade project of public works Y means a project of public works 
in which no single trade accounts for 85 percent or more of the total labor cost of the 
project.
(c)  XPrevailing hours of labor Y for any trade or occupation in any area means 
10 hours per day and 40 hours per week and may not include any hours worked on 
a Saturday or Sunday or on any of the following holidays:
1.  January 1.
2.  The last Monday in May.
3.  July 4.
4.  The first Monday in September.
5.  The 4th Thursday in November.
6.  December 25.
7.  The day before if January 1, July 4, or December 25 falls on a Saturday.
8.  The day following if January 1, July 4, or December 25 falls on a Sunday.
(d) 1.  Except as provided in subd. 2., Xprevailing wage rate Y for any trade or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1087 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
occupation engaged in the erection, construction, remodeling, repairing, or 
demolition of any project of public works in any area means the hourly basic rate of 
pay, plus the hourly contribution for health insurance benefits, vacation benefits, 
pension benefits, and any other bona fide economic benefit, paid directly or 
indirectly for a majority of the hours worked in the trade or occupation on projects 
in the area.
2.  If there is no rate at which a majority of the hours worked in the trade or 
occupation on projects in the area is paid, Xprevailing wage rate Y for any trade or 
occupation engaged in the erection, construction, remodeling, repairing, or 
demolition of any project of public works in any area means the average hourly basic 
rate of pay, weighted by the number of hours worked, plus the average hourly 
contribution, weighted by the number of hours worked, for health insurance 
benefits, vacation benefits, pension benefits, and any other bona fide economic 
benefit, paid directly or indirectly for all hours worked at the hourly basic rate of 
pay of the highest-paid 51 percent of hours worked in that trade or occupation on 
projects in that area.
(em)  XSingle-trade project of public works Y means a project of public works in 
which a single trade accounts for 85 percent or more of the total labor cost of the 
project.
(f)  XState agency Y means any office, department, independent agency, 
institution of higher education, association, society, or other body in state 
government created or authorized to be created by the constitution or any law, 
including the legislature and the courts.  XState agency Y also includes the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1088 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority, the Fox River 
Navigational System Authority, and the Wisconsin Aerospace Authority.
(fm)  XSupply and installation contract Y means a contract under which the 
material is installed by the supplier, the material is installed by means of simple 
fasteners or connectors such as screws or nuts and bolts, and no other work is 
performed on the site of the project of public works, and the total labor cost to 
install the material does not exceed 20 percent of the total cost of the contract.
(g)  XTruck driver Y includes an owner-operator of a truck.
(1m)   APPLICABILITY .  Subject to sub. (3g), this section applies to any project of 
public works erected, constructed, repaired, remodeled, or demolished for the state 
or a state agency, including all of the following:
(a)  A project erected, constructed, repaired, remodeled, or demolished by one 
state agency for another state agency under any contract or under any statute 
specifically authorizing cooperation between state agencies.
(b)  A project in which the completed facility is leased, purchased, lease 
purchased, or otherwise acquired by, or dedicated to, the state in lieu of the state or 
a state agency contracting for the erection, construction, repair, remodeling, or 
demolition of the facility.
(c)  A sanitary sewer or water main project in which the completed sanitary 
sewer or water main is acquired by, or dedicated to, the state for ownership or 
maintenance by the state.
(2)  PREVAILING  WAGE  RATES  AND HOURS  OF LABOR .  Any contract made for the 
erection, construction, remodeling, repairing, or demolition of any project of public 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1089 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
works to which the state or any state agency is a party shall contain a stipulation 
that no individual performing the work described in sub. (2m) may be allowed to 
work a greater number of hours per day or per week than the prevailing hours of 
labor, except that any such individual may be allowed or required to work more than 
such prevailing hours of labor per day and per week if he or she is paid for all hours 
worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor at a rate of at least 1.5 times his or 
her hourly basic rate of pay; nor may he or she be paid less than the prevailing wage 
rate determined under sub. (3) in the same or most similar trade or occupation in 
the area in which the project of public works is situated.  The notice published for 
the purpose of securing bids for the project must contain a reference to the 
prevailing wage rates determined under sub. (3) and the prevailing hours of labor.  
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, if any contract or subcontract for a 
project of public works that is subject to this section is entered into, the prevailing 
wage rates determined under sub. (3) and the prevailing hours of labor shall be 
physically incorporated into and made a part of the contract or subcontract.  For a 
minor subcontract, as determined by the department, the department shall 
prescribe by rule the method of notifying the minor subcontractor of the prevailing 
wage rates and prevailing hours of labor applicable to the minor subcontract.  The 
prevailing wage rates and prevailing hours of labor applicable to a contract or 
subcontract may not be changed during the time that the contract or subcontract is 
in force.
(2m)   COVERED  EMPLOYEES .  (a)  Subject to par. (b), any person subject to this 
section shall pay all of the following employees the prevailing wage rate determined 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1090 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
under sub. (3) and may not allow such employees to work a greater number of hours 
per day or per week than the prevailing hours of labor, unless the person pays for all 
hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor at a rate of at least 1.5 times 
the employees [ hourly basic rate of pay:
1.  All laborers, workers, mechanics, and truck drivers employed on the site of 
a project of public works that is subject to this section.
2.  All laborers, workers, mechanics, and truck drivers employed in the 
manufacturing or furnishing of materials, articles, supplies, or equipment on the 
site of a project of public works that is subject to this section or from a facility 
dedicated exclusively, or nearly so, to a project of public works that is subject to this 
section by a contractor, subcontractor, agent, or other person performing any work 
on the site of the project.
(b)  A laborer, worker, mechanic, or truck driver who is employed to process, 
manufacture, pick up, or deliver materials or products from a commercial 
establishment that has a fixed place of business from which the establishment 
supplies processed or manufactured materials or products or from a facility that is 
not dedicated exclusively, or nearly so, to a project of public works that is subject to 
this section is not entitled to receive the prevailing wage rate determined under 
sub. (3) or to receive at least 1.5 times his or her hourly basic rate of pay for all hours 
worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor unless any of the following applies:
1.  The laborer, worker, mechanic, or truck driver is employed to go to the 
source of mineral aggregate such as sand, gravel, or stone and deliver that mineral 
aggregate to the site of a project of public works that is subject to this section by 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1091 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
depositing the material directly in final place, from the transporting vehicle or 
through spreaders from the transporting vehicle.
2.  The laborer, worker, mechanic, or truck driver is employed to go to the site 
of a project that is subject to this section, pick up excavated material or spoil from 
the site of the project of public works, and transport that excavated material or spoil 
away from the site of the project.
(c)  A person that is subject to this section shall pay a truck driver who is an 
owner-operator of a truck separately for his or her work and for the use of his or her 
truck.
(3)  INVESTIGATION ; DETERMINATION .  (a)  Before a state agency issues a 
request for bids for any work to which this section applies, the state agency having 
the authority to prescribe the specifications shall apply to the department to 
determine the prevailing wage rate for each trade or occupation required in the 
work under contemplation in the area in which the work is to be done.  The 
department shall conduct investigations and hold public hearings as necessary to 
define the trades or occupations that are commonly employed on projects that are 
subject to this section and to inform itself of the prevailing wage rates in all areas of 
the state for those trades or occupations, in order to determine the prevailing wage 
rate for each trade or occupation.  The department shall issue its determination 
within 30 days after receiving the request and shall file the determination with the 
requesting state agency.  A state agency that has contracted for a project of public 
works subject to this section shall post the prevailing wage rates determined by the 
department, the prevailing hours of labor, and the provisions of subs. (2) and (6m) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1092 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
in at least one conspicuous place on the site of the project that is easily accessible by 
employees working on the project.
(am)  The department shall, by January 1 of each year, compile the prevailing 
wage rates for each trade or occupation in each area.  The compilation shall, in 
addition to the current prevailing wage rates, include future prevailing wage rates 
when those prevailing wage rates can be determined for any trade or occupation in 
any area and shall specify the effective date of those future prevailing wage rates.  
If a project of public works extends into more than one area, the department shall 
determine only one standard of prevailing wage rates for the entire project.
(ar)  In determining prevailing wage rates under par. (a) or (am), the 
department may not use data from projects that are subject to this section, s. 
66.0903, 103.50, or 229.8275, or 40 USC 3142 unless the department determines 
that there is insufficient wage data in the area to determine those prevailing wage 
rates, in which case the department may use data from projects that are subject to 
this section, s. 66.0903, 103.50, or 229.8275, or 40 USC 3142.  In determining 
prevailing wage rates under par. (a) or (am), the department may not use data from 
any construction work performed by a state agency or a local governmental unit, as 
defined in s. 66.0903 (1) (d).
(b)  Any person may request a recalculation of any portion of an initial 
determination within 30 days after the initial determination date if the person 
submits evidence with the request showing that the prevailing wage rate for any 
given trade or occupation included in the initial determination does not represent 
the prevailing wage rate for that trade or occupation in the area.  The evidence shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1093 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
include wage rate information reflecting work performed by individuals working in 
the contested trade or occupation in the area during the current survey period.  The 
department shall affirm or modify the initial determination within 15 days after 
the date on which the department receives the request for recalculation.
(c)  In addition to the recalculation under par. (b), the state agency that 
requested the determination under this subsection may request a review of any 
portion of a determination within 30 days after the date of issuance of the 
determination if the state agency submits evidence with the request showing that 
the prevailing wage rate for any given trade or occupation included in the 
determination does not represent the prevailing wage rate for that trade or 
occupation in the city, village, or town in which the proposed project of public works 
is located.  That evidence shall include wage rate information for the contested 
trade or occupation on at least 3 similar projects located in the city, village, or town 
where the proposed project of public works is located on which some work has been 
performed during the current survey period and that were considered by the 
department in issuing its most recent compilation under par. (am).  The 
department shall affirm or modify the determination within 15 days after the date 
on which the department receives the request for review.
(3g)  NONAPPLICABILITY .  This section does not apply to any of the following:
(a)  A single-trade project of public works for which the estimated project cost 
of completion is less than $48,000 or a multiple-trade project of public works for 
which the estimated project cost of completion is less than $100,000.
(b)  Work performed on a project of public works for which the state or the state 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1094 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
agency contracting for the project is not required to compensate any contractor, 
subcontractor, contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent, or individual for performing 
the work.
(c)  Minor service or maintenance work, warranty work, or work under a 
supply and installation contract.
(f)  A public highway, street, or bridge project.
(g)  A project of public works involving the erection, construction, repair, 
remodeling, or demolition of a residential property containing 2 dwelling units or 
less.
(h)  A road, street, bridge, sanitary sewer, or water main project that is a part 
of a development in which not less than 90 percent of the lots contain or will contain 
2 dwelling units or less, as determined by the local governmental unit at the time of 
approval of the development, and that, on completion, is acquired by, or dedicated 
to, the state for ownership or maintenance by the state.
(4r)  COMPLIANCE .  (a)  When the department finds that a state agency has not 
requested a determination under sub. (3) (a) or that a state agency, contractor, or 
subcontractor has not physically incorporated a determination into a contract or 
subcontract as required under sub. (2) or has not notified a minor subcontractor of 
a determination in the manner prescribed by the department by rule promulgated 
under sub. (2), the department shall notify the state agency, contractor, or 
subcontractor of the noncompliance and shall file the determination with the state 
agency, contractor, or subcontractor within 30 days after the notice.
(b)  Upon completion of a project of public works and before receiving final 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1095 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
payment for his or her work on the project, each agent or subcontractor shall 
furnish the contractor with an affidavit stating that the agent or subcontractor has 
complied fully with the requirements of this section.  A contractor may not 
authorize final payment until the affidavit is filed in proper form and order.
(c)  Upon completion of a project of public works and before receiving final 
payment for his or her work on the project, each contractor shall file with the state 
agency authorizing the work an affidavit stating that the contractor has complied 
fully with the requirements of this section and that the contractor has received an 
affidavit under par. (b) from each of the contractor [s agents and subcontractors.  A 
state agency may not authorize a final payment until the affidavit is filed in proper 
form and order.  If a state agency authorizes a final payment before an affidavit is 
filed in proper form and order or if the department determines, based on the 
greater weight of the credible evidence, that any person performing the work 
specified in sub. (2m) has been or may have been paid less than the prevailing wage 
rate or less than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess 
of the prevailing hours of labor and requests that the state agency withhold all or 
part of the final payment, but the state agency fails to do so, the state agency is 
liable for all back wages payable up to the amount of the final payment.
(5)  RECORDS ; INSPECTION ; ENFORCEMENT .  (a)  Each contractor, subcontractor, 
or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent that performs work on a project of public 
works that is subject to this section shall keep full and accurate records clearly 
indicating the name and trade or occupation of every individual performing the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1096 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
work described in sub. (2m) and an accurate record of the number of hours worked 
by each of those individuals and the actual wages paid for the hours worked.
(b)  The department shall enforce this section.  The department may demand 
and examine, and every contractor, subcontractor, and contractor [s and 
subcontractor [s agent shall keep, and furnish upon request by the department, 
copies of payrolls and other records and information relating to the wages paid to 
individuals performing the work described in sub. (2m) for work to which this 
section applies.  The department may inspect records in the manner provided in 
this chapter.  Every contractor, subcontractor, or agent performing work on a project 
of public works that is subject to this section is subject to the requirements of this 
chapter relating to the examination of records.  Section 111.322 (2m) applies to 
discharge and other discriminatory acts arising in connection with any proceeding 
under this section.
(c)  If requested by any person, the department shall inspect the payroll 
records of any contractor, subcontractor, or agent performing work on a project of 
public works that is subject to this section as provided in this paragraph to ensure 
compliance with this section.  On receipt of such a request, the department shall 
request that the contractor, subcontractor, or agent submit to the department a 
certified record of the information specified in par. (a), other than personally 
identifiable information relating to an employee of the contractor, subcontractor, or 
agent, for no longer than a 4-week period.  The department may request a 
contractor, subcontractor, or agent to submit those records no more than once per 
calendar quarter for each project of public works on which the contractor, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1097 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
subcontractor, or agent is performing work.  The department may not charge a 
requester a fee for obtaining that information.  Certified records submitted to the 
department under this paragraph are open for public inspection and copying under 
s. 19.35 (1).
(6m)   L IABILITY  AND PENALTIES .  (ag) 1.  A contractor, subcontractor, or 
contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent who fails to pay the prevailing wage rate 
determined by the department under sub. (3) or who pays less than 1.5 times the 
hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of 
labor is liable to any affected employee in the amount of his or her unpaid wages or 
his or her unpaid overtime compensation and in an additional amount as liquidated 
damages as provided in subd. 2. or 3., whichever is applicable.
2.  If the department determines upon inspection under sub. (5) (b) or (c) that 
a contractor, subcontractor, or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent has failed to 
pay the prevailing wage rate determined by the department under sub. (3) or has 
paid less than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 
the prevailing hours of labor, the department shall order the contractor to pay to 
any affected employee the amount of his or her unpaid wages or his or her unpaid 
overtime compensation and an additional amount equal to 100 percent of the 
amount of those unpaid wages or that unpaid overtime compensation as liquidated 
damages within a period specified by the department in the order.
3.  In addition to or in lieu of recovering the liability specified in subd. 1. as 
provided in subd. 2., any employee for and on behalf of that employee and other 
employees similarly situated may commence an action to recover that liability in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1098 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
any court of competent jurisdiction.  If the court finds that a contractor, 
subcontractor, or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent has failed to pay the 
prevailing wage rate determined by the department under sub. (3) or has paid less 
than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of the 
prevailing hours of labor, the court shall order the contractor, subcontractor, or 
agent to pay to any affected employee the amount of his or her unpaid wages or his 
or her unpaid overtime compensation and an additional amount equal to 100 
percent of the amount of those unpaid wages or that unpaid overtime compensation 
as liquidated damages.
5.  No employee may be a party plaintiff to an action under subd. 3. unless the 
employee consents in writing to become a party and the consent is filed in the court 
in which the action is brought.  Notwithstanding s. 814.04 (1), the court shall, in 
addition to any judgment awarded to the plaintiff, allow reasonable attorney fees 
and costs to be paid by the defendant.
(am)  Except as provided in pars. (b), (d), and (f), any contractor, subcontractor, 
or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent who violates this section may be fined not 
more than $200 or imprisoned for not more than 6 months or both.  Each day that a 
violation continues is a separate offense.
(b)  Whoever induces an individual who seeks to be or is employed on any 
project of public works that is subject to this section to give up, waive, or return any 
part of the wages to which the individual is entitled under the contract governing 
the project, or who reduces the hourly basic rate of pay normally paid to an 
individual for work on a project that is not subject to this section during a week in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1099 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
which the individual works both on a project of public works that is subject to this 
section and on a project that is not subject to this section, by threat not to employ, by 
threat of dismissal from employment, or by any other means is guilty of an offense 
under s. 946.15 (1).
(c)  Any individual who is employed on a project of public works that is subject 
to this section who knowingly allows a contractor, subcontractor, or contractor [s or 
subcontractor [s agent to pay him or her less than the prevailing wage rate set forth 
in the contract governing the project, who gives up, waives, or returns any part of 
the compensation to which he or she is entitled under the contract, or who gives up, 
waives, or returns any part of the compensation to which he or she is normally 
entitled for work on a project that is not subject to this section during a week in 
which the individual works both on a project of public works that is subject to this 
section and on a project that is not subject to this section, is guilty of an offense 
under s. 946.15 (2).
(d)  Whoever induces any individual who seeks to be or is employed on any 
project of public works that is subject to this section to allow any part of the wages 
to which the individual is entitled under the contract governing the project to be 
deducted from the individual [s pay is guilty of an offense under s. 946.15 (3), unless 
the deduction would be allowed under 29 CFR 3.5 or 3.6 from an individual who is 
working on a project that is subject to 40 USC 3142.
(e)  Any individual who is employed on a project of public works that is subject 
to this section who knowingly allows any part of the wages to which he or she is 
entitled under the contract governing the project to be deducted from his or her pay 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1100 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
is guilty of an offense under s. 946.15 (4), unless the deduction would be allowed 
under 29 CFR 3.5 or 3.6 from an individual who is working on a project that is 
subject to 40 USC 3142.
(f)  Paragraph (am) does not apply to any person who fails to provide any 
information to the department to assist the department in determining prevailing 
wage rates under sub. (3) (a) or (am).
(7)  D EBARMENT .  (a)  Except as provided under pars. (b) and (c), the 
department shall distribute to all state agencies a list of all persons that the 
department has found to have failed to pay the prevailing wage rate determined 
under sub. (3) or has found to have paid less than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate of 
pay for all hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor at any time in the 
preceding 3 years.  The department shall include with any name the address of the 
person and shall specify when the person failed to pay the prevailing wage rate and 
when the person paid less than 1.5 times the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours 
worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor.  A state agency may not award any 
contract to the person unless otherwise recommended by the department or unless 
3 years have elapsed from the date the department issued its findings or date of 
final determination by a court of competent jurisdiction, whichever is later.
(b)  The department may not include in a notification under par. (a) the name 
of any person on the basis of having subcontracted a contract for a project of public 
works to a person that the department has found to have failed to pay the prevailing 
wage rate determined under sub. (3) or has found to have paid less than 1.5 times 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1101 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1671
the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of 
labor.
(c)  This subsection does not apply to any contractor, subcontractor, or agent 
who in good faith commits a minor violation of this section, as determined on a case-
by-case basis through administrative hearings with all rights to due process 
afforded to all parties or who has not exhausted or waived all appeals.
(d)  Any person submitting a bid on a project of public works that is subject to 
this section shall, on the date the person submits the bid, identify any construction 
business in which the person, or a shareholder, officer, or partner of the person if 
the person is a business, owns or has owned at least a 25 percent interest on the 
date the person submits the bid or at any other time within 3 years preceding the 
date the person submits the bid, if the business has been found to have failed to pay 
the prevailing wage rate determined under sub. (3) or to have paid less than 1.5 
times the hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of the prevailing 
hours of labor.
(e)  The department shall promulgate rules to administer this subsection.
SECTION  1672 .  103.50 of the statutes is created to read:
103.50   Highway contracts.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XAreaY means the county in which a proposed project that is subject to this 
section is located or, if the department determines that there is insufficient wage 
data in that county, XareaY means those counties that are contiguous to that county 
or, if the department determines that there is insufficient wage data in those 
counties, XareaY means those counties that are contiguous to those counties or, if 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1102 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1672
the department determines that there is insufficient wage data in those counties, 
XareaY means the entire state.
(b)  XHourly basic rate of pay Y has the meaning given in s. 103.49 (1) (b).
(bg)  XInsufficient wage data Y has the meaning given in s. 103.49 (1) (bg).
(c)  XPrevailing hours of labor Y has the meaning given in s. 103.49 (1) (c).
(d) 1.  Except as provided in subd. 2., Xprevailing wage rate Y for any trade or 
occupation in any area means the hourly basic rate of pay, plus the hourly 
contribution for health insurance benefits, vacation benefits, pension benefits, and 
any other bona fide economic benefit, paid directly or indirectly, for a majority of the 
hours worked in the trade or occupation in the area.
2.  If there is no rate at which a majority of the hours worked in the trade or 
occupation in the area is paid, Xprevailing wage rate Y means the average hourly 
basic rate of pay, weighted by the number of hours worked, plus the average hourly 
contribution, weighted by the number of hours worked, for health insurance 
benefits, vacation benefits, pension benefits, and any other bona fide economic 
benefit, paid directly or indirectly for all hours worked at the hourly basic rate of 
pay of the highest-paid 51 percent of hours worked in that trade or occupation in 
that area.
(e)  XTruck driver Y has the meaning given in s. 103.49 (1) (g).
(2)  P REVAILING  WAGE  RATES  AND HOURS  OF LABOR .  No contractor, 
subcontractor, agent, or other person performing any work on a project under a 
contract based on bids as provided in s. 84.06 (2) to which the state is a party for the 
construction or improvement of any highway may do any of the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1103 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1672
(a)  Pay an individual performing the work described in sub. (2m) less than the 
prevailing wage rate in the area in which the work is to be done determined under 
sub. (3).
(b)  Allow an individual performing the work described in sub. (2m) to work a 
greater number of hours per day or per week than the prevailing hours of labor, 
unless the contractor, subcontractor, or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent pays 
the individual for all hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor at a 
rate of at least 1.5 times the individual [s hourly basic rate of pay.
(2g)  NONAPPLICABILITY .  This section does not apply to a single-trade project 
of public works, as defined in s. 103.49 (1) (em), for which the estimated project cost 
of completion is less than $48,000 or a multiple-trade project of public works, as 
defined in s. 103.49 (1) (br), for which the estimated project cost of completion is less 
than $100,000.
(2m)   COVERED  EMPLOYEES .  (a)  Subject to par. (b), any person subject to this 
section shall pay all of the following employees the prevailing wage rate determined 
under sub. (3) and may not allow such employees to work a greater number of hours 
per day or per week than the prevailing hours of labor, unless the person pays for all 
hours worked in excess of the prevailing hours of labor at a rate of at least 1.5 times 
the employees [ hourly basic rate of pay:
1.  All laborers, workers, mechanics, and truck drivers employed on the site of 
a project that is subject to this section.
2.  All laborers, workers, mechanics, and truck drivers employed in the 
manufacturing or furnishing of materials, articles, supplies, or equipment on the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1104 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1672
site of a project that is subject to this section or from a facility dedicated exclusively, 
or nearly so, to a project that is subject to this section by a contractor, subcontractor, 
agent, or other person performing any work on the site of the project.
(b)  A laborer, worker, mechanic, or truck driver who is employed to process, 
manufacture, pick up, or deliver materials or products from a commercial 
establishment that has a fixed place of business from which the establishment 
supplies processed or manufactured materials or products or from a facility that is 
not dedicated exclusively, or nearly so, to a project that is subject to this section is 
not entitled to receive the prevailing wage rate determined under sub. (3) or to 
receive at least 1.5 times his or her hourly basic rate of pay for all hours worked in 
excess of the prevailing hours of labor unless any of the following applies:
1.  The laborer, worker, mechanic, or truck driver is employed to go to the 
source of mineral aggregate such as sand, gravel, or stone and deliver that mineral 
aggregate to the site of a project that is subject to this section by depositing the 
material directly in final place, from the transporting vehicle or through spreaders 
from the transporting vehicle.
2.  The laborer, worker, mechanic, or truck driver is employed to go to the site 
of a project that is subject to this section, pick up excavated material or spoil from 
the site of the project, and transport that excavated material or spoil away from the 
site of the project and return to the site of the project.
(c)  A contractor, subcontractor, agent, or other person performing work on a 
project subject to this section shall pay a truck driver who is an owner-operator of a 
truck separately for his or her work and for the use of his or her truck.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1105 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1672
(3)  I NVESTIGATIONS ; DETERMINATIONS .  The department shall conduct 
investigations and hold public hearings necessary to define the trades or 
occupations that are commonly employed in the highway construction industry and 
to inform the department of the prevailing wage rates in all areas of the state for 
those trades or occupations, in order to ascertain and determine the prevailing 
wage rates accordingly.
(4)  CERTIFICATION  OF PREVAILING  WAGE  RATES .  The department of workforce 
development shall, by May 1 of each year, certify to the department of 
transportation the prevailing wage rates in each area for all trades or occupations 
commonly employed in the highway construction industry.  The certification shall, 
in addition to the current prevailing wage rates, include future prevailing wage 
rates when such prevailing wage rates can be determined for any such trade or 
occupation in any area and shall specify the effective date of those future prevailing 
wage rates.  The certification shall also include wage rates for work performed on 
Sundays or the holidays specified in s. 103.49 (1) (c) and shift differentials based on 
the time of day or night when work is performed.  If a construction project extends 
into more than one area, the department shall determine only one standard of 
prevailing wage rates for the entire project.
(4m)   WAGE RATE  DATA .  In determining prevailing wage rates for projects that 
are subject to this section, the department shall use data from projects that are 
subject to this section, s. 66.0903 or 103.49, or 40 USC 3142.  In determining 
prevailing wage rates for those projects, the department may not use data from any 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1106 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1672
construction work that is performed by a state agency or a local governmental unit, 
as defined in s. 66.0903 (1) (d).
(5)  APPEALS  TO GOVERNOR .  If the department of transportation considers any 
determination of the department of workforce development of the prevailing wage 
rates in an area to be incorrect, it may appeal to the governor, whose determination 
is final.
(6)  CONTENTS  OF CONTRACTS .  The department of transportation shall include 
a reference to the prevailing wage rates determined under sub. (3) and the 
prevailing hours of labor in the notice published for the purpose of securing bids for 
a project.  Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, if any contract or 
subcontract for a project that is subject to this section is entered into, the prevailing 
wage rates determined under sub. (3) and the prevailing hours of labor shall be 
physically incorporated into and made a part of the contract or subcontract.  For a 
minor subcontract, as determined by the department of workforce development, 
that department shall prescribe by rule the method of notifying the minor 
subcontractor of the prevailing wage rates and prevailing hours of labor applicable 
to the minor subcontract.  The prevailing wage rates and prevailing hours of labor 
applicable to a contract or subcontract may not be changed during the time that the 
contract or subcontract is in force.  The department of transportation shall post the 
prevailing wage rates determined by the department, the prevailing hours of labor, 
and the provisions of subs. (2) and (7) in at least one conspicuous place that is easily 
accessible to the employees on the site of the project.
(7)  PENALTIES .  (a)  Except as provided in pars. (b), (d), and (f), any contractor, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1107 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1672
subcontractor, or contractor [s or subcontractor [s agent who violates this section 
may be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned for not more than 6 months or both.  
Each day that a violation continues is a separate offense.
(b)  Whoever induces any individual who seeks to be or is employed on any 
project that is subject to this section to give up, waive, or return any part of the 
wages to which the individual is entitled under the contract governing the project, 
or who reduces the hourly basic rate of pay normally paid to an individual for work 
on a project that is not subject to this section during a week in which the individual 
works both on a project that is subject to this section and on a project that is not 
subject to this section, by threat not to employ, by threat of dismissal from 
employment, or by any other means is guilty of an offense under s. 946.15 (1).
(c)  Any individual employed on a project that is subject to this section who 
knowingly allows a contractor, subcontractor, or contractor [s or subcontractor [s 
agent to pay him or her less than the prevailing wage rate set forth in the contract 
governing the project, who gives up, waives, or returns any part of the compensation 
to which he or she is entitled under the contract, or who gives up, waives, or returns 
any part of the compensation to which he or she is normally entitled for work on a 
project that is not subject to this section during a week in which the individual 
works both on a project that is subject to this section and on a project that is not 
subject to this section, is guilty of an offense under s. 946.15 (2).
(d)  Whoever induces any individual who seeks to be or is employed on any 
project that is subject to this section to allow any part of the wages to which the 
individual is entitled under the contract governing the project to be deducted from 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1108 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1672
the individual [s pay is guilty of an offense under s. 946.15 (3), unless the deduction 
would be allowed under 29 CFR 3.5 or 3.6 from an individual who is working on a 
project that is subject to 40 USC 3142.
(e)  Any individual employed on a project that is subject to this section who 
knowingly allows any part of the wages to which he or she is entitled under the 
contract governing the project to be deducted from his or her pay is guilty of an 
offense under s. 946.15 (4), unless the deduction would be allowed under 29 CFR 3.5 
or 3.6 from an individual who is working on a project that is subject to 40 USC 3142.
(f)  Paragraph (a) does not apply to any individual who fails to provide any 
information to the department to assist the department in determining prevailing 
wage rates under sub. (3) or (4).
(8)  ENFORCEMENT  AND PROSECUTION .  The department of transportation shall 
require adherence to subs. (2), (2m), and (6).  The department of transportation may 
demand and examine, and every contractor, subcontractor, and contractor [s or 
subcontractor [s agent shall keep and furnish upon request by the department of 
transportation, copies of payrolls and other records and information relating to 
compliance with this section.  Upon request of the department of transportation or 
upon complaint of alleged violation, the district attorney of the county in which the 
work is located shall investigate as necessary and prosecute violations in a court of 
competent jurisdiction.  Section 111.322 (2m) applies to discharge and other 
discriminatory acts arising in connection with any proceeding under this section.
SECTION  1673 .  103.503 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.503 (1) (a)  XAccident Y means an incident caused, contributed to, or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1109 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1673
otherwise involving an employee that resulted or could have resulted in death, 
personal injury, or property damage and that occurred while the employee was 
performing the work described in s. 66.0903 (4), 2013 stats., or s. 16.856 103.49 
(2m), 2015 stats., on a project of public works or while the employee was performing 
work on a public utility project.
SECTION  1674 .  103.503 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.503 (1) (e)  XEmployee Y means a laborer, worker, mechanic, or truck driver 
who performs the work described in s. 66.0903 (4), 2013 stats., or s. 16.856 103.49 
(2m), 2015 stats., on a project of public works or on a public utility project.
SECTION  1675 .  103.503 (1) (g) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to 
read:
103.503 (1) (g)  XProject of public works Y means a project of public works that 
is subject to s. 66.0903 or 103.49.
SECTION  1676 .  103.503 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
103.503 (2)  SUBSTANCE  ABUSE  PROHIBITED .  No employee may use, possess, 
attempt to possess, distribute, deliver, or be under the influence of a drug, or use or 
be under the influence of alcohol, while performing the work described in s. 66.0903 
(4), 2013 stats., or s. 16.856 103.49 (2m), 2015 stats., on a project of public works or 
while performing work on a public utility project.  An employee is considered to be 
under the influence of alcohol for purposes of this subsection if he or she has an 
alcohol concentration that is equal to or greater than the amount specified in s. 
885.235 (1g) (d).
SECTION  1677 .  103.503 (3) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1110 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1677
103.503 (3) (a) 2.  A requirement that employees performing the work 
described in s. 66.0903 (4), 2013 stats., or s. 16.856 103.49 (2m), 2015 stats., on a 
project of public works or performing work on a public utility project submit to 
random, reasonable suspicion, and post-accident drug and alcohol testing and to 
drug and alcohol testing before commencing work on the project, except that testing 
of an employee before commencing work on a project is not required if the employee 
has been participating in a random testing program during the 90 days preceding 
the date on which the employee commenced work on the project.
SECTION  1678 .  103.90 (3) (b) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
103.90 (3) (b) 3.  Any bed and breakfast establishment, hotel, or tourist 
rooming house that is required to be licensed under s. 97.605.
SECTION  1679 .  104.001 (3) of the statutes is created to read:
104.001 (3)  This section does not affect an ordinance that, subject to s. 
66.0903, requires an employee of a city, village, town, or county, an employee who 
performs work under a contract for the provision of services to a city, village, town, 
or county, or an employee who performs work that is funded by financial assistance 
from a city, village, town, or county to be paid at a minimum wage rate specified in 
the ordinance.
SECTION  1680 .  104.001 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
104.001 (4)  This section does not affect the requirement that employees 
employed on a public works project contracted for by a city, village, town, or county 
be paid at the prevailing wage rate, as defined in s. 66.0903 (1) (g), as required 
under s. 66.0903.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1111 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1681
SECTION  1681 .  106.023 of the statutes is created to read:
106.023   Teacher apprenticeships.   (1)  In consultation with the 
department of public instruction, the department shall prescribe the conditions 
under which a person may serve a teacher apprenticeship, as to higher education 
attendance requirements, level of supervision of an apprentice, and the credit for 
school attendance in serving the apprenticeship.  The department shall also 
prescribe the criteria an individual must satisfy to demonstrate that the individual 
has successfully completed an apprenticeship under this section.
(2)  Every person commencing a teacher apprenticeship shall enter into an 
apprentice contract under s. 106.01.
SECTION  1682 .  106.04 of the statutes is created to read:
106.04   Employment of apprentices on state public works projects.  (1)   
DEFINITION .  In this section, XprojectY means a project of public works that is 
subject to s. 103.49 or 103.50 in which work is performed by employees employed in 
trades that are apprenticeable under this subchapter.
(2)  W AIVER .  If the department grants an exception or modification to any 
requirement in any contract for the performance of work on a project relating to the 
employment and training of apprentices, the department shall post that 
information on its Internet site, together with a detailed explanation for granting 
the exception or modification.
SECTION  1683 .  106.135 of the statutes is created to read:
106.135   Youth-to-registered apprenticeship grant program.   (1)  
DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XApprenticeship program Y has the meaning given in s. 106.001 (4).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1112 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1683
(b)  XYouth apprenticeship program Y means the program under s. 106.13 (1).
(2)  G RANT  PROGRAM .  (a)  The department shall develop and administer a 
program to award grants from the appropriation under s. 20.445 (1) (em) to youth 
apprenticeship consortia to provide incentives to individuals to transition from 
participating in the youth apprenticeship program to participating in an 
apprenticeship program.  The department may not award more than $350,000 in 
grants under this subsection in any fiscal year.
(b)  Youth apprenticeship consortia that may receive a grant under this section 
shall be partnerships between one or more school districts or between one or more 
school districts and at least one of the following:
1.  A community-based organization.
2.  A cooperative educational service agency.
3.  Employers.
4.  Colleges in the technical college system.
5.  Labor unions.
6.  Chambers of commerce.
7.  Local workforce development boards.
8.  Other public agencies.
9.  Other contributing individuals.
(3)  RULES .  The department shall promulgate rules to implement this section.
SECTION  1684 .  106.136 of the statutes is created to read:
106.136   On-the-job learning grant program.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this 
section:
(a)  XApprentice Y has the meaning given in s. 106.001 (1).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1113 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1684
(b)  XApprenticeship program Y has the meaning given in s. 106.001 (4).
(2)  PROGRAM .  (a)  The department shall develop and administer a program to 
award grants from the appropriation under s. 20.445 (1) (er) to the following:
1.  New and small employers for costs associated with apprenticeship 
programs.  To be eligible to receive a grant, an employer must either never have had 
an apprenticeship program or not have had an apprenticeship program in the 
particular trade, craft, or business for which it seeks the grant in the 5 years 
preceding the date of application for the grant.
2.  Healthcare employers for costs associated with on-the-job learning.
(b)  Employers may use the grants under this section to reimburse themselves 
for costs related to apprentices, including wages, instruction, and mentoring.
(c)  Grants under par. (a) 2. shall be provided under a pilot program.
(3)  RULES .  The department shall promulgate rules to implement this section, 
which shall include procedures and criteria for awarding grants under this section.
SECTION  1685 .  106.145 of the statutes is created to read:
106.145   Wisconsin worker advancement program.  The department 
shall, from the appropriation under s. 20.445 (1) (cm), establish and administer a 
Wisconsin worker advancement program to make grants to local organizations, 
including local workforce development boards established under 29 USC 3122 and 
community-based organizations, for the organizations to provide employment and 
workforce services, including unrestricted support services, career services, and 
training programs to address workforce barriers.
SECTION  1686 .  106.27 (1) (h) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1114 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1686
106.27 (1) (h)  Grants for education and training in the use of artificial 
intelligence .
SECTION  1687 .  106.27 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
106.27 (2m)   C ONSULTATION .  The department shall consult with the 
department of public instruction, the department of health services, the technical 
college system board and the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation in 
implementing this section.
SECTION  1688 .  106.29 of the statutes is created to read:
106.29   Workforce innovation grant program.   (1)  W ORKFORCE  
INNOVATION  GRANTS .  The department shall, from the appropriation under s. 20.445 
(1) (bw), establish and operate a program to provide grants to regional 
organizations to design and implement programs to address their region [s 
workforce challenges.
(2)  IMPLEMENTATION .  (a)  Duties .  To implement this section, the department 
shall receive and review applications for grants under sub. (1) and prescribe the 
form, nature, and extent of the information that must be contained in an 
application for a grant under sub. (1).
(b)  Powers .  In addition to the duties described in par. (a), the department 
shall have all other powers necessary and convenient to implement this section, 
including the power to audit and inspect the records of grant recipients.
SECTION  1689 .  106.30 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
106.30 (1)  DEFINITION .  In this section, XnurseY means a registered nurse 
licensed under s. 441.06 or permitted under s. 441.08, a licensed practical nurse 
licensed or permitted under s. 441.10, or an advanced practice registered nurse 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1115 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1689
prescriber certified under s. 441.16 (2), or a nurse-midwife licensed under s. 441.15 
441.09.
SECTION  1690 .  106.30 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
106.30 (2)  S URVEY  FORM .  Each odd-numbered year Biennially, the 
department of workforce development shall develop and submit to the department 
of safety and professional services a survey form to gather data under s. 441.01 (7) 
(a) 1. to assist the department of workforce development in evaluating the supply of, 
demand for, and turnover among nurses in this state and in determining whether 
there are any regional shortages of nurses, shortages of nurses in any specialty 
areas, or impediments to entering the nursing profession in this state.
SECTION  1691 .  106.50 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
106.50 (1)  INTENT .  It is the intent of this section to render unlawful 
discrimination in housing.  It is the declared policy of this state that all persons 
shall have an equal opportunity for housing regardless of sex, race, color, sexual 
orientation, disability, religion, national origin, marital status, family status, status 
as a victim of domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, lawful source of income, 
receipt of rental or housing assistance, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (rm), age, or 
ancestry and it is the duty of the political subdivisions to assist in the orderly 
prevention or removal of all discrimination in housing through the powers granted 
under ss. 66.0125 and 66.1011.  The legislature hereby extends the state law 
governing equal housing opportunities to cover single-family residences that are 
owner-occupied.  The legislature finds that the sale and rental of single-family 
residences constitute a significant portion of the housing business in this state and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1116 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1691
should be regulated.  This section shall be considered an exercise of the police 
powers of the state for the protection of the welfare, health, peace, dignity, and 
human rights of the people of this state.
SECTION  1692 .  106.50 (1) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act 
.... (this act), is amended to read:
106.50 (1)  INTENT .  It is the intent of this section to render unlawful 
discrimination in housing.  It is the declared policy of this state that all persons 
shall have an equal opportunity for housing regardless of sex, race, color, sexual 
orientation, disability, religion, national origin, marital status, family status, status 
as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), status as a victim of 
domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, lawful source of income, receipt of 
rental or housing assistance, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (rm), age, or ancestry and 
it is the duty of the political subdivisions to assist in the orderly prevention or 
removal of all discrimination in housing through the powers granted under ss. 
66.0125 and 66.1011.  The legislature hereby extends the state law governing equal 
housing opportunities to cover single-family residences that are owner-occupied.  
The legislature finds that the sale and rental of single-family residences constitute 
a significant portion of the housing business in this state and should be regulated.  
This section shall be considered an exercise of the police powers of the state for the 
protection of the welfare, health, peace, dignity, and human rights of the people of 
this state.
SECTION  1693 .  106.50 (1m) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
106.50 (1m)  (h)  XDiscriminate Y means to segregate, separate, exclude, or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1117 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1693
treat a person or class of persons unequally in a manner described in sub. (2), (2m), 
or (2r) because of sex, race, color, sexual orientation, disability, religion, national 
origin, marital status, family status, status as a victim of domestic abuse, sexual 
assault, or stalking, lawful source of income, receipt of rental or housing assistance, 
as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (rm), age, or ancestry.
SECTION  1694 .  106.50 (1m) (h) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), is amended to read:
106.50 (1m)  (h)  XDiscriminate Y means to segregate, separate, exclude, or 
treat a person or class of persons unequally in a manner described in sub. (2), (2m), 
or (2r) because of sex, race, color, sexual orientation, disability, religion, national 
origin, marital status, family status, status as a holder or nonholder of a license 
under s. 343.03 (3r), status as a victim of domestic abuse, sexual assault, or 
stalking, lawful source of income, receipt of rental or housing assistance, as defined 
in s. 106.50 (1m) (rm), age, or ancestry.
SECTION  1695 .  106.50 (1m) (nm) of the statutes is amended to read:
106.50 (1m)  (nm)  XMember of a protected class Y means a group of natural 
persons, or a natural person, who may be categorized because of sex, race, color, 
disability, sexual orientation, religion, national origin, marital status, family 
status, status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), status as a 
victim of domestic abuse, sexual abuse, or stalking, lawful source of income, age, or 
ancestry.
SECTION  1696 .  106.50 (1m) (rm) of the statutes is created to read:
106.50 (1m)  (rm)  XRental or housing assistance Y means any form of financial 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1118 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1696
contribution from a 3rd party for the purpose of creating or maintaining affordable 
housing for tenants, purchasers, or other recipients of housing, including assistance 
provided under 42 USC 1437f, the HOME Investment Partnerships Program 
administered by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, or the 
Community Development Block Grant Program administered by the federal 
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
SECTION  1697 .  106.50 (5m) (f) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
106.50 (5m)  (f) 1.  Nothing in this section prohibits an owner or agent from 
requiring that a person who seeks to buy or rent housing supply information 
concerning family status, and marital, financial, and business status but not 
concerning race, color, disability, sexual orientation, ancestry, national origin, 
religion, creed, status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), 
status as a victim of domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, or, subject to subd. 
2., age.
SECTION  1698 .  106.52 (3) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
106.52 (3) (a) 1.  Deny to another or charge another a higher price than the 
regular rate for the full and equal enjoyment of any public place of accommodation 
or amusement because of sex, race, color, creed, disability, sexual orientation, 
national origin, or ancestry or because a person holds or does not hold a license 
under s. 343.03 (3r).
SECTION  1699 .  106.52 (3) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
106.52 (3) (a) 2.  Give preferential treatment to some classes of persons in 
providing services or facilities in any public place of accommodation or amusement 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1119 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1699
because of sex, race, color, creed, sexual orientation, national origin, or ancestry or 
because a person holds or does not hold a license under s. 343.03 (3r).
SECTION  1700 .  106.52 (3) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
106.52 (3) (a) 3.  Directly or indirectly publish, circulate, display or mail any 
written communication which the communicator knows is to the effect that any of 
the facilities of any public place of accommodation or amusement will be denied to 
any person by reason of sex, race, color, creed, disability, sexual orientation, 
national origin, or ancestry or because a person holds or does not hold a license 
under s. 343.03 (3r) or that the patronage of a person is unwelcome, objectionable or 
unacceptable for any of those reasons.
SECTION  1701 .  106.52 (3) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
106.52 (3) (a) 4.  Refuse to furnish or charge another a higher rate for any 
automobile insurance because of race, color, creed, disability, national origin, or 
ancestry or because a person holds or does not hold a license under s. 343.03 (3r).
SECTION  1702 .  106.52 (3) (a) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
106.52 (3) (a) 5.  Refuse to rent, charge a higher price than the regular rate or 
give preferential treatment, because of sex, race, color, creed, sexual orientation, 
national origin, or ancestry or because a person holds or does not hold a license 
under s. 343.03 (3r), regarding the use of any private facilities commonly rented to 
the public.
SECTION  1703 .  108.02 (18r) of the statutes is created to read:
108.02 (18r)   M ARIJUANA .  XMarijuana Y has the meaning given in s. 111.32 
(11m).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1120 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1704
SECTION  1704 .  108.02 (26m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1705 .  108.022 of the statutes is created to read:
108.022   Electronic payments and filings; good cause.   For purposes of 
requirements to use electronic filing, payment, or interchange methods specified 
under ss. 108.14 (2e), 108.17 (2b) and (7) (a), 108.185, and 108.205 (2), good cause 
for not using such method includes all of the following, as determined by the 
department:
(1)  Having limited or no Internet access.
(2)  Having digital literacy limitations.
(3)  Having communication barriers, such as having a vision or other 
disability that prevents the ease of using the electronic method or having limited or 
no English proficiency.
(4)  The presence of other circumstances that make use of the electronic 
method unusually difficult for the person, as determined by the department.
SECTION  1706 .  108.04 (2) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.04 (2) (a) (intro.)  Except as provided in pars. par. (b) to (bd), sub. (16) (am) 
and (b), and s. 108.062 (10) and (10m) and as otherwise expressly provided, a 
claimant is eligible for benefits as to any given week only if all of the following apply:
SECTION  1707 .  108.04 (2) (a) 3. of the statutes is repealed and recreated to 
read:
108.04 (2) (a) 3.  The claimant conducts a reasonable search for suitable work 
during that week and provides verification of that search to the department.  The 
search for suitable work must include at least 4 actions per week that constitute a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1121 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1707
reasonable search as prescribed by rule of the department.  In addition, the 
department may, by rule, require a claimant to take more than 4 reasonable work 
search actions in any week.  The department shall require a uniform number of 
reasonable work search actions for similar types of claimants.  This subdivision 
does not apply to a claimant if the department determines that the claimant is 
currently laid off from employment with an employer but there is a reasonable 
expectation of reemployment of the individual by that employer.  In determining 
whether the claimant has a reasonable expectation of reemployment by an 
employer, the department shall request the employer to verify the claimant [s 
employment status and shall consider all of the following:
a.  The history of layoffs and reemployments by the employer.
b.  Any information that the employer furnished to the claimant or the 
department concerning the claimant [s anticipated reemployment date.
c.  Whether the claimant has recall rights with the employer under the terms 
of any applicable collective bargaining agreement.
SECTION  1708 .  108.04 (2) (b) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
108.04 (2) (b) 1.  The department may, by rule, establish waivers from the 
registration for work requirement under par. (a) 2. and the work search 
requirement under par. (a) 3.
2. a.  The department may promulgate rules under subd. 1. as emergency 
rules, using the procedure under s. 227.24, if the secretary of workforce 
development determines that the waiver is needed only on a temporary basis or that 
permanent rules are not warranted.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1122 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1708
department is not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this 
subd. 2. a. as an emergency rule is necessary for the preservation of the public 
peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of 
emergency for a rule promulgated under this subd. 2. a.  Except as provided under 
subd. 2. b., a rule promulgated under this subd. 2. a. remains in effect only for 150 
days.
b.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (2), the secretary of workforce development may 
extend the effective period of an emergency rule promulgated under subd. 2. a. for a 
period specified by the secretary not to exceed 60 days.  Any number of extensions 
may be granted under this subd. 2. b.  Whenever the secretary extends an 
emergency rule under this subd. 2. b., it shall file a statement of its action with the 
legislative reference bureau.  The statement shall identify the specific emergency 
rule to which it relates.
SECTION  1709 .  108.04 (2) (bb) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1710 .  108.04 (2) (bd) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1711 .  108.04 (2) (bm) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.04 (2) (bm)  A claimant is ineligible to receive benefits for any week for 
which there is a determination that the claimant failed to comply with the 
registration for work and work search requirements under par. (a) 2. or 3. or failed 
to provide verification to the department that the claimant complied with those 
requirements, unless the department has waived those requirements under par. 
(b), (bb), or (bd) or s. 108.062 (10m).  If the department has paid benefits to a 
claimant for any such week, the department may recover the overpayment under s. 
108.22.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1123 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1712
SECTION  1712 .  108.04 (2) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.04 (2) (h)  A claimant shall, when the claimant first files a claim for 
benefits under this chapter and during each subsequent week the claimant files for 
benefits under this chapter, inform the department whether he or she is receiving 
social security disability insurance payments, as defined in sub. (12) (f) 2m s. 
108.05 (7m) (b).  If the claimant is receiving social security disability insurance 
payments, the claimant shall, in the manner prescribed by the department, report 
to the department the amount of the social security disability insurance payments.
SECTION  1713 .  108.04 (3) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1714 .  108.04 (5) (intro.) of the statutes is renumbered 108.04 (5) 
(cm) and amended to read:
108.04 (5) (cm)  An employee whose work is terminated by an employing unit 
for misconduct by the employee connected with the employee [s work is ineligible to 
receive benefits until 7 weeks have elapsed since the end of the week in which the 
discharge occurs and the employee earns wages after the week in which the 
discharge occurs equal to at least 14 times the employee [s weekly benefit rate under 
s. 108.05 (1) in employment or other work covered by the unemployment insurance 
law of any state or the federal government.  For purposes of requalification, the 
employee [s weekly benefit rate shall be the rate that would have been paid had the 
discharge not occurred.  The wages paid to an employee by an employer which 
terminates employment of the employee for misconduct connected with the 
employee [s employment shall be excluded from the employee [s base period wages 
under s. 108.06 (1) for purposes of benefit entitlement.  This subsection paragraph 
does not preclude an employee who has employment with an employer other than 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1124 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1714
the employer which terminated the employee for misconduct from establishing a 
benefit year using the base period wages excluded under this subsection paragraph 
if the employee qualifies to establish a benefit year under s. 108.06 (2) (a).  The 
department shall charge to the fund [s balancing account any benefits otherwise 
chargeable to the account of an employer that is subject to the contribution 
requirements under ss. 108.17 and 108.18 from which base period wages are 
excluded under this subsection paragraph.
(am)  For purposes of this subsection, Xmisconduct Y means one or more actions 
or conduct evincing such willful or wanton disregard of an employer [s interests as is 
found in deliberate violations or disregard of standards of behavior which an 
employer has a right to expect of his or her employees, or in carelessness or 
negligence of such degree or recurrence as to manifest culpability, wrongful intent, 
or evil design of equal severity to such disregard, or to show an intentional and 
substantial disregard of an employer [s interests, or of an employee [s duties and 
obligations to his or her employer.
(bm)  In addition to the conduct described in par. (am), Xmisconduct Y includes 
all of the following:
SECTION  1715 .  108.04 (5) (a) to (g) of the statutes are renumbered 108.04 (5) 
(bm) 1. to 7., and 108.04 (5) (bm) 5. and 7., as renumbered, are amended to read:
108.04 (5) (bm) 5.  Absenteeism by an employee on more than 2 occasions 
within the 120-day period before the date of the employee [s termination, unless 
otherwise specified by his or her employer in an employment manual of which the 
employee has acknowledged receipt with his or her signature, or excessive tardiness 
by an employee in violation of a policy of the employer that has been communicated 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1125 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1715
to the employee, if the employee does not provide to his or her employer both notice 
and one or more valid reasons for the absenteeism or tardiness.  For purposes of this 
subdivision, an employee [s notice and reason for an occasion of absenteeism or 
tardiness shall be analyzed under the standard specified in par. (am).
7.  Unless directed by the employer, a willful and deliberate violation of a 
written and uniformly applied standard or regulation of the federal government or 
a state or Indian tribal government by an employee of an employer that is licensed 
or certified by a governmental agency, which standard or regulation has been 
communicated by the employer to the employee and which violation would cause the 
employer to be sanctioned or to have its license or certification suspended by the 
agency.
SECTION  1716 .  108.04 (5g) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1717 .  108.04 (5m) of the statutes is created to read:
108.04 (5m)   DISCHARGE  FOR USE OF MARIJUANA .  (a)  Notwithstanding sub. 
(5), Xmisconduct, Y for purposes of sub. (5), does not include the employee [s use of 
marijuana off the employer [s premises during nonworking hours or a violation of 
the employer [s policy concerning such use, unless termination of the employee 
because of that use is permitted under s. 111.35.
(b)  Notwithstanding sub. (5g), Xsubstantial fault, Y for purposes of sub. (5g), 
does not include the employee [s use of marijuana off the employer [s premises during 
nonworking hours or a violation of the employer [s policy concerning such use, unless 
termination of the employee because of that use is permitted under s. 111.35.
SECTION  1718 .  108.04 (7) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.04 (7) (e)  Paragraph (a) does not apply if the department determines that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1126 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1718
the employee accepted work that the employee could have failed to accept under sub. 
(8) and terminated the work on the same grounds and within the first 30 calendar 
days 10 weeks after starting the work, or that the employee accepted work that the 
employee could have refused under sub. (9) and terminated the work within the 
first 30 calendar days 10 weeks after starting the work.  For purposes of this 
paragraph, an employee has the same grounds for voluntarily terminating work if 
the employee could have failed to accept the work under sub. (8) (d) to (em) when it 
was offered, regardless of the reason articulated by the employee for the 
termination.
SECTION  1719 .  108.04 (7) (t) 1. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1720 .  108.04 (7) (t) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
108.04 (7) (t) 2.  The employee [s spouse was required by the U.S. armed forces 
his or her employing unit to relocate to a place to which it is impractical for the 
employee to commute.
SECTION  1721 .  108.04 (8) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.04 (8) (a)  Except as provided in par. (b), if If an employee fails, without 
good cause, to accept suitable work when offered, the employee is ineligible to 
receive benefits until the employee earns wages after the week in which the failure 
occurs equal to at least 6 times the employee [s weekly benefit rate under s. 108.05 
(1) in employment or other work covered by the unemployment insurance law of any 
state or the federal government.  For purposes of requalification, the employee [s 
weekly benefit rate shall be that rate which would have been paid had the failure 
not occurred.  This paragraph does not preclude an employee from establishing a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1127 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1721
benefit year during a period in which the employee is ineligible to receive benefits 
under this paragraph if the employee qualifies to establish a benefit year under s. 
108.06 (2) (a).  Except as provided in par. (b), the The department shall charge to 
the fund [s balancing account any benefits otherwise chargeable to the account of an 
employer that is subject to the contribution requirements under ss. 108.17 and 
108.18 whenever an employee of that employer fails, without good cause, to accept 
suitable work offered by that employer.
SECTION  1722 .  108.04 (8) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1723 .  108.04 (8) (d) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.04 (8) (d) (intro.)  With respect to the first  6  10 weeks after the employee 
became unemployed, Xsuitable work, Y for purposes of par. (a), means work to which 
all of the following apply:
SECTION  1724 .  108.04 (8) (dm) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.04 (8) (dm)  With respect to the 7th 11th week after the employee became 
unemployed and any week thereafter, Xsuitable work, Y for purposes of par. (a), 
means any work that the employee is capable of performing, regardless of whether 
the employee has any relevant experience or training, that pays wages that are 
above the lowest quartile of wages for similar work in the labor market area in 
which the work is located, as determined by the department.
SECTION  1725 .  108.04 (11) (bm) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.04 (11) (bm)  The department shall apply any ineligibility under par. (be) 
against benefits and weeks of eligibility for which the claimant would otherwise be 
eligible after the week of concealment and within 6 years after the date of an initial 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1128 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1725
determination issued under s. 108.09 finding that a concealment occurred.  The 
claimant shall not receive waiting period credit under sub. (3) for the period of 
ineligibility applied under par. (be).  If no benefit rate applies to the week for which 
the claim is made, the department shall use the claimant [s benefit rate for the 
claimant [s next benefit year beginning after the week of concealment to determine 
the amount of the benefit reduction.
SECTION  1726 .  108.04 (12) (f) 1m. and 2m. of the statutes are renumbered 
108.05 (7m) (a) and (b) and amended to read:
108.05 (7m)  (a)  The intent of the legislature in enacting this paragraph 
subsection is to prevent the payment of duplicative government benefits for the 
replacement of lost earnings or income, regardless of an individual [s ability to work.
(b)  In this paragraph subsection, Xsocial security disability insurance 
payment Y means a payment of social security disability insurance benefits under 42 
USC ch. 7 subch. II.
SECTION  1727 .  108.04 (12) (f) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1728 .  108.04 (12) (f) 4. of the statutes is renumbered 108.05 (7m) (e).
SECTION  1729 .  108.05 (1) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
108.05 (1) (cm)  For purposes of par. (r), the department shall set the 
maximum weekly benefit amount as follows:
1.  For benefits paid for a week of total unemployment that commences on or 
after January 5, 2014, but before January 4, 2026, $370.
2.  For benefits paid for a week of total unemployment that commences on or 
after January 4, 2026, but before January 3, 2027, $497.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1129 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1729
3.  For benefits paid for a week of total unemployment that commences on or 
after January 3, 2027, the department shall set the maximum weekly benefit 
amount as provided under sub. (2).
SECTION  1730 .  108.05 (1) (r) of the statutes is renumbered 108.05 (1) (r) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
108.05 (1) (r) (intro.)  Except as provided in s. 108.062 (6) (a), each eligible 
employee shall be paid benefits for each week of total unemployment that 
commences on or after January 5, 2014, at the a weekly benefit rate specified in this 
paragraph.  Unless sub. (1m) applies, the weekly benefit rate shall equal to 4 
percent of the employee [s base period wages that were paid during that quarter of 
the employee [s base period in which the employee was paid the highest total wages, 
rounded down to the nearest whole dollar, except that, if that amount as provided 
under sub. (1m) and except as follows:
1.  If the employee [s weekly benefit rate calculated under this paragraph is 
less than $54, no benefits are payable to the employee and, if that amount.
2.  If the employee [s weekly benefit rate is more than $370 the maximum 
weekly benefit amount specified in par. (cm), the employee [s weekly benefit rate 
shall be $370 and except that, if the maximum weekly benefit amount specified in 
par. (cm).
3.  If the employee [s benefits are exhausted during any week under s. 108.06 
(1), the employee shall be paid the remaining amount of benefits payable to the 
employee under s. 108.06 (1).
(s)  The department shall publish on its Internet site a weekly benefit rate 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1130 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1730
schedule of quarterly wages and the corresponding weekly benefit rates as 
calculated in accordance with this paragraph subsection.
SECTION  1731 .  108.05 (2) of the statutes is created to read:
108.05 (2)  INDEXING .  (a)  For benefits paid or payable for a week that 
commences on or after January 3, 2027, the department shall set the maximum 
weekly benefit amount under sub. (1) (cm) 3. and the wage limitation under sub. (3) 
(dm) 2. c. by doing the following:
1.  Except as provided in subd. 2., calculating the percentage difference 
between the consumer price index for the 12-month period ending on July 31 of the 
prior year and the consumer price index for the 12-month period ending on July 31 
of the year before the prior year, adjusting the prior year [s amount or limitation by 
that percentage difference, and rounding that result to the nearest whole dollar.
2.  If the consumer price index for the 12-month period ending on July 31 of 
the prior year has not increased over the consumer price index for the 12-month 
period ending on July 31 of the year before the prior year, setting the amount or 
limitation at the same amount or limitation that was in effect in the previous year.
(b)  An adjustment under this subsection of the maximum weekly benefit 
amount under sub. (1) (cm) 3. and the wage limitation under sub. (3) (dm) 2. c. shall 
take effect on the 1st Sunday in January of each calendar year.
SECTION  1732 .  108.05 (3) (dm) of the statutes is renumbered 108.05 (3) (dm) 
1. and amended to read:
108.05 (3) (dm) 1.  Except when otherwise authorized in an approved work-
share program under s. 108.062, a claimant is ineligible to receive any benefits for a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1131 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1732
week if the claimant receives or will receive from one or more employers wages 
earned for work performed in that week, amounts treated as wages under s. 108.04 
(1) (bm) for that week, sick pay, holiday pay, vacation pay, termination pay, bonus 
pay, back pay, or payments treated as wages under s. 108.04 (12) (e), or any 
combination thereof, totalling more than $500 the amount specified in subd. 2.
SECTION  1733 .  108.05 (3) (dm) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
108.05 (3) (dm) 2.  The department shall set the wage limitation under subd. 
1. as follows:
a.  For a week of unemployment that commences before January 4, 2026, $500.
b.  For a week of unemployment that commences on or after January 4, 2026, 
but before January 3, 2027, $672.
c.  For a week of unemployment that commences on or after January 3, 2027, 
the department shall set the wage limitation as provided under sub. (2).
SECTION  1734 .  108.05 (7m) (title), (c) and (d) of the statutes are created to 
read:
108.05 (7m)  (title)  S OCIAL  SECURITY  DISABILITY  INSURANCE  PAYMENTS .
(c)  If a monthly social security disability insurance payment is issued to a 
claimant, the department shall reduce benefits otherwise payable to the claimant 
for a given week in accordance with par. (d).  This subsection does not apply to a 
lump sum social security disability insurance payment in the nature of a retroactive 
payment or back pay.
(d)  The department shall allocate a monthly social security disability 
insurance payment by allocating to each week the fraction of the payment 
attributable to that week.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1132 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1735
SECTION  1735 .  108.05 (9) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.05 (9)  R OUNDING  OF BENEFIT  AMOUNTS .  Notwithstanding sub. (1), 
benefits payable for a week of unemployment as a result of applying sub. (1m), (3) 
or, (7), or (7m) or s. 108.04 (11) or (12), 108.06 (1), 108.13 (4) or (5) or 108.135 shall 
be rounded down to the next lowest dollar.
SECTION  1736 .  108.05 (10) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.05 (10)  DEDUCTIONS  FROM  BENEFIT  PAYMENTS .  (intro.)  After calculating 
the benefit payment due to be paid for a week under subs. (1) to (7) (7m), the 
department shall make deductions from that payment to the extent that the 
payment is sufficient to make the following payments in the following order:
SECTION  1737 .  108.133 of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act .... 
(this act), is repealed.
SECTION  1738.  108.133 (1) (ar) of the statutes is renumbered 108.133 (1) (ar) 
1. and amended to read:
108.133 (1) (ar) 1.  Notwithstanding s. 108.02 (9), Xcontrolled substance Y has 
the meaning given in 21 USC 802, except as provided in subd. 2.
SECTION  1739.  108.133 (1) (ar) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
108.133 (1) (ar) 2.  XControlled substance Y does not include 
tetrahydrocannabinols, commonly known as XTHC,Y in any form including 
tetrahydrocannabinols contained in marijuana, obtained from marijuana, or 
chemically synthesized.
SECTION  1740 .  108.14 (2e) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.14 (2e)  The department may shall provide a secure means of electronic 
interchange between itself and employing units, claimants, and other persons that, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1133 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1740
upon request to and with prior approval by the department, may shall be used for 
departmental transmission or receipt of any document specified by the department 
that is related to the administration of this chapter and related federal programs in 
lieu of any other means of submission or receipt specified in this chapter.  The 
secure means of electronic interchange shall be used by employing units, claimants, 
and other persons unless the person demonstrates good cause, as specified in s. 
108.022, for being unable to use the secure means of electronic interchange.  Subject 
to s. 137.25 (2) and any rules promulgated thereunder, the department may permit 
the use of electronic records and electronic signatures for any document specified by 
the department that is related to the administration of this chapter.  If a due date is 
established by statute for the receipt of any document that is submitted 
electronically to the department under this subsection, then that submission is 
timely only if the document is submitted by midnight of the statutory due date.
SECTION  1741 .  108.14 (8n) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.14 (8n) (e)  The department shall charge this state [s share of any benefits 
paid under this subsection to the account of each employer by which the employee 
claiming benefits was employed in the applicable base period, in proportion to the 
total amount of wages he or she earned from each employer in the base period, 
except that if s. 108.04 (1) (f), (5), (5g), (7) (a), (c), (cg), (e), (L), (q), (s), or (t), (7m), or 
(8) (a) to and (c), or 108.07 (3), (3r), or (5) (am) 2., or 108.133 (3) (f) would have 
applied to employment by such an employer who is subject to the contribution 
requirements of ss. 108.17 and 108.18, the department shall charge the share of 
benefits based on employment with that employer to the fund [s balancing account, 
or, if s. 108.04 (1) (f), (5), or (5g) or 108.07 (3) would have applied to an employer that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1134 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1741
is not subject to the contribution requirements of ss. 108.17 and 108.18, the 
department shall charge the share of benefits based on that employment in 
accordance with s. 108.07 (5) (am) 1. and 2.  The department shall also charge the 
fund[s balancing account with any other state [s share of such benefits pending 
reimbursement by that state.
SECTION  1742 .  108.14 (8n) (e) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), is amended to read:
108.14 (8n) (e)  The department shall charge this state [s share of any benefits 
paid under this subsection to the account of each employer by which the employee 
claiming benefits was employed in the applicable base period, in proportion to the 
total amount of wages he or she earned from each employer in the base period, 
except that if s. 108.04 (1) (f), (5), (5g), (7) (a), (c), (cg), (e), (L), (q), (s), or (t), (7m), or 
(8) (a) and (c) or 108.07 (3), (3r), or (5) (am) 2. would have applied to employment by 
such an employer who is subject to the contribution requirements of ss. 108.17 and 
108.18, the department shall charge the share of benefits based on employment 
with that employer to the fund [s balancing account, or, if s. 108.04 (1) (f), or (5), or 
(5g) or 108.07 (3) would have applied to an employer that is not subject to the 
contribution requirements of ss. 108.17 and 108.18, the department shall charge 
the share of benefits based on that employment in accordance with s. 108.07 (5) 
(am) 1. and 2.  The department shall also charge the fund [s balancing account with 
any other state [s share of such benefits pending reimbursement by that state.
SECTION  1743 .  108.141 (7) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.141 (7) (a)  The department shall charge the state [s share of each week of 
extended benefits to each employer [s account in proportion to the employer [s share 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1135 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1743
of the total wages of the employee receiving the benefits in the employee [s base 
period, except that if the employer is subject to the contribution requirements of ss. 
108.17 and 108.18 the department shall charge the share of extended benefits to 
which s. 108.04 (1) (f), (5), (5g), (7) (a), (c), (cg), (e), (L), (q), (s), or (t), (7m), or (8) (a) 
to and (c), or 108.07 (3), (3r), or (5) (am) 2., or 108.133 (3) (f) applies to the fund [s 
balancing account.
SECTION  1744 .  108.141 (7) (a) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), is amended to read:
108.141 (7) (a)  The department shall charge the state [s share of each week of 
extended benefits to each employer [s account in proportion to the employer [s share 
of the total wages of the employee receiving the benefits in the employee [s base 
period, except that if the employer is subject to the contribution requirements of ss. 
108.17 and 108.18 the department shall charge the share of extended benefits to 
which s. 108.04 (1) (f), (5), (5g), (7) (a), (c), (cg), (e), (L), (q), (s), or (t), (7m), or (8) (a) 
and (c) or 108.07 (3), (3r), or (5) (am) 2. applies to the fund [s balancing account.
SECTION  1745 .  108.16 (6m) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.16 (6m)  (a)  The benefits thus chargeable under sub. (7) (a) or (b) or s. 
108.04 (1) (f), (5), (5g), (7) (u), (7m), (8) (a) to and (c), (13) (c) or (d) or (16) (e), 108.07 
(3), (3r), (5) (am) 2. and (bm) 3. a., (5m), and (6), 108.133 (3) (f), 108.14 (8n) (e), 
108.141, 108.15, 108.151, or 108.152.
SECTION  1746 .  108.16 (6m) (a) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), is amended to read:
108.16 (6m)  (a)  The benefits thus chargeable under sub. (7) (a) or (b) or s. 
108.04 (1) (f), (5), (5g), (7) (u), (7m), (8) (a) and (c), (13) (c) or (d) or (16) (e), 108.07 (3), 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1136 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1746
(3r), (5) (am) 2. and (bm) 3. a., (5m), and (6), 108.14 (8n) (e), 108.141, 108.15, 
108.151, or 108.152.
SECTION  1747 .  108.17 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.17 (2) (a)  Except as provided in par. (b) and subject to sub. (2b) and s. 
108.185, every employer that is subject to a contribution requirement shall file 
quarterly reports of contributions required under this chapter with the 
department, and pay contributions to the department, in such manner as the 
department prescribes.  Each contribution report and payment is due at the close of 
the month next following the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except as 
authorized in sub. (2c) or as the department may assign a later due date pursuant 
to sub. (1m) or general department rules.
(b)  The department may electronically provide a means whereby an employer 
that files its employment and wage reports electronically may determine the 
amount of contributions due for payment by the employer under s. 108.18 for each 
quarter.  If an employer that is subject to a contribution requirement files its 
employment and wage reports under s. 108.205 (1) electronically, in the manner 
prescribed by the department for purposes of this paragraph under s. 108.205 (2), 
the department may require the employer to determine electronically the amount of 
contributions due for payment by the employer under s. 108.18 for each quarter.  In 
such case, the employer is excused from filing contribution reports under par. (a).  
The employer shall pay the amount due for each quarter by the due date specified in 
par. (a).
SECTION  1748 .  108.17 (2b) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1137 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1748
108.17 (2b)  The department shall prescribe a form and methodology for filing 
contribution reports under sub. (2) electronically.  Each employer of 25 or more 
employees, as determined under s. 108.22 (1) (ae), that does not use an and 
employer agent to file its contribution reports under this section shall file its 
contribution reports electronically in the manner and form prescribed by the 
department.  Each employer that becomes subject to an electronic reporting 
requirement under this subsection shall file its initial report under this subsection 
for the quarter during which the employer becomes subject to the reporting 
requirement.  Once an employer becomes subject to a reporting requirement under 
this subsection, it shall continue to file its reports under this subsection unless that 
requirement is waived by the department unless the employer demonstrates good 
cause, as specified in s. 108.022, for being unable to file contribution reports 
electronically.
SECTION  1749 .  108.17 (2g) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1750 .  108.17 (7) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1751 .  108.185 of the statutes is created to read:
108.185   Payment of contributions and reimbursements; good cause.   
Each employer, employer agent, person liable under s. 108.22 (9), and private 
agency liable under s. 108.22 (10) shall pay all contributions, reimbursements, 
interest, penalties, assessments, and other amounts due under this chapter by 
means of electronic funds transfer or another electronic method as approved by the 
department unless the employer, employer agent, person, or private agency 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1138 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1751
demonstrates good cause, as specified in s. 108.022, for being unable to pay such 
amounts electronically.
SECTION  1752 .  108.19 (1s) (a) 5. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1753 .  108.205 (1m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1754 .  108.205 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.205 (2)  Each employer of 25 or more employees, as determined under s. 
108.22 (1) (ae), that does not use an employer agent to file its reports under this 
section and employer agent shall file the quarterly report under sub. (1) 
electronically in the manner and form prescribed by the department.  An employer 
that becomes subject to an electronic reporting requirement under this subsection 
shall file its initial report under this subsection for the quarter during which the 
employer becomes subject to the reporting requirement.  Once an employer becomes 
subject to the reporting requirement under this subsection, the employer shall 
continue to file its quarterly reports under this subsection unless that requirement 
is waived by the department unless the employer demonstrates good cause, as 
specified in s. 108.022, for being unable to file reports electronically.
SECTION  1755 .  108.22 (1) (ac) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.22 (1) (ac)  In addition to any fee assessed under par. (a), the department 
may assess an employer or employer agent that is subject to the reporting 
requirement under s. 108.205 (2) and that fails to file its report in the manner and 
form prescribed under that subsection a penalty of $20 for each employee whose 
information is not reported in the that manner and form prescribed under s. 
108.205 (1m) (b) or (2).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1139 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1756
SECTION  1756 .  108.22 (1) (ad) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
108.22 (1) (ad) 1.  An employer agent that is subject to the reporting 
requirements under s. 108.17 (2g) (2b) and that fails to file a contribution report in 
accordance with s. 108.17 (2g) (2b) may be assessed a penalty by the department in 
the amount of $25 for each employer whose report is not filed electronically in the 
manner and form prescribed by the department.
SECTION  1757 .  108.22 (1) (af) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.22 (1) (af)  In addition to the fee assessed under par. (a), the department 
may assess an employer or employer agent a person that is subject to a requirement 
required to make contributions a payment to the department by means of an 
electronic funds transfer method under s. 108.17 (7) 108.185 and that pays 
contributions makes the payment by any method inconsistent with s. 108.17 (7) 
108.185 a penalty of the greater of $50 or an amount equal to one-half of one 1 
percent of the total contributions amount paid by the employer or employer agent 
person for the quarter in which the violation occurs.
SECTION  1758 .  108.221 (1) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 108.221 (1) (a) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
108.221 (1) (a) (intro.)  Any employer described in s. 108.18 (2) (c) or engaged 
in the painting or drywall finishing of buildings or other structures who knowingly 
and intentionally provides false information to the department for the purpose of 
misclassifying or attempting to misclassify an individual who is an employee of the 
employer as a nonemployee shall, for each incident, be assessed a penalty by the 
department as follows:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1140 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1758
1.  For each act occurring before the date of the first determination of a 
violation of this subsection, the employer shall be assessed a penalty in the amount 
of $500 for each employee who is misclassified, but not to exceed $7,500 per 
incident.
SECTION  1759 .  108.221 (1) (a) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
108.221 (1) (a) 2.  For each act occurring after the date of the first 
determination of a violation of this subsection, the employer shall be assessed a 
penalty in the amount of $1,000 for each employee who is misclassified.
SECTION  1760 .  108.221 (2) of the statutes is renumbered 108.221 (2) (intro.) 
and amended to read:
108.221 (2) (intro.)  Any employer described in s. 108.18 (2) (c) or engaged in 
the painting or drywall finishing of buildings or other structures who, through 
coercion, requires an individual to adopt the status of a nonemployee shall be 
assessed a penalty by the department as follows:
(a)  For each act occurring before the date of the first determination of a 
violation of this subsection, the employer shall be assessed a penalty in the amount 
of $1,000 for each individual so coerced, but not to exceed $10,000 per calendar year.
SECTION  1761 .  108.221 (2) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
108.221 (2) (b)  For each act occurring after the date of the first determination 
of a violation of this subsection, the employer shall be assessed a penalty in the 
amount of $2,000 for each individual so coerced.
SECTION  1762 .  108.24 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
108.24 (2m)   Any employer described in s. 108.18 (2) (c) or engaged in the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1141 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1762
painting or drywall finishing of buildings or other structures who, after having 
previously been assessed an administrative penalty by the department under s. 
108.221 (1), knowingly and intentionally provides false information to the 
department for the purpose of misclassifying or attempting to misclassify an 
individual who is an employee of the employer as a nonemployee shall be fined 
$1,000 for each employee who is misclassified, subject to a maximum fine of $25,000 
for each violation.  The department may, regardless of whether an employer has 
been subject to any administrative assessment under s. 108.221 or any other 
penalty or assessment under this chapter, refer violations of this subsection for 
prosecution by the department of justice or the district attorney for the county in 
which the violation occurred.
SECTION  1763 .  109.03 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
109.03 (1) (b)  School district employees, cooperative educational service 
agency employees, and private school employees who voluntarily request payment 
over a 12-month period for personal services performed during the school year, 
unless, with respect to private school employees, the employees are covered under a 
valid collective bargaining agreement which precludes this method of payment.
SECTION  1764 .  109.09 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
109.09 (1)  The department shall investigate and attempt equitably to adjust 
controversies between employers and employees as to regarding alleged wage 
claims.  The department may receive and investigate any wage claim that is filed 
with the department, or received by the department under s. 109.10 (4), no later 
than 2 years after the date the wages are due.  The department may, after receiving 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1142 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1764
a wage claim, investigate any wages due from the employer against whom the claim 
is filed to any employee during the period commencing 2 years before the date the 
claim is filed.  The department shall enforce this chapter and s. ss. 66.0903, 2013 
stats., s. 103.49, 2013 stats., s. 229.8275, 2013 stats., and s. 16.856, 2015 stats., and 
ss. 103.02, 103.49, 103.82, and 104.12, and 229.8275.  In pursuance of this duty, the 
department may sue the employer on behalf of the employee to collect any wage 
claim or wage deficiency and ss. 109.03 (6) and 109.11 (2) and (3) shall apply to such 
actions.  Except for actions under s. 109.10, the department may refer such an 
action to the district attorney of the county in which the violation occurs for 
prosecution and collection and the district attorney shall commence an action in the 
circuit court having appropriate jurisdiction.  Any number of wage claims or wage 
deficiencies against the same employer may be joined in a single proceeding, but the 
court may order separate trials or hearings.  In actions that are referred to a district 
attorney under this subsection, any taxable costs recovered by the district attorney 
shall be paid into the general fund of the county in which the violation occurs and 
used by that county to meet its financial responsibility under s. 978.13 (2) (b) for the 
operation of the office of the district attorney who prosecuted the action.
SECTION  1765 .  109.09 (3) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1766 .  109.11 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
109.11 (1) (c)  If an employer does not agree to compromise and settle a wage 
claim under this subsection, the department may refer the wage claim to a district 
attorney under s. 109.09 (1) or to the department of justice under s. 109.10 (3) for 
commencement of an action in circuit court to collect the amount of wages due and 
unpaid plus increased wages as specified in sub. (2) (b) (a).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1143 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1767
SECTION  1767 .  109.11 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
109.11 (2) (a)  In Except as provided in par. (c), in a wage claim action that is 
commenced by an employee before the department has completed its investigation 
under s. 109.09 (1) and its attempts to compromise and settle the wage claim under 
sub. (1), a circuit court may shall order the employer to pay to the employee, in 
addition to the amount of wages due and unpaid and in addition to or in lieu of the 
criminal penalties specified in sub. (3), increased wages of not more than 50 100 
percent of the amount of wages due and unpaid.
SECTION  1768 .  109.11 (2) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1769 .  109.11 (2) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
109.11 (2) (c)  An employer may rebut the presumption of increased wages 
under par. (a) by demonstrating that they acted in good faith and had a reasonable 
belief that they were in compliance with the law.
SECTION  1770 .  111.01 of the statutes is created to read:
111.01   Declaration of policy.   The public policy of the state as to 
employment relations and collective bargaining, in the furtherance of which this 
subchapter is enacted, is declared to be as follows:
(1)  It recognizes that there are 3 major interests involved, namely:  the public, 
the employee, and the employer.  These 3 interests are to a considerable extent 
interrelated.  It is the policy of the state to protect and promote each of these 
interests with due regard to the situation and to the rights of the others.
(2)  Industrial peace, regular and adequate income for the employee, and 
uninterrupted production of goods and services are promotive of all of these 
interests.  They are largely dependent upon the maintenance of fair, friendly, and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1144 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1770
mutually satisfactory employment relations and the availability of suitable 
machinery for the peaceful adjustment of whatever controversies may arise.  It is 
recognized that certain employers, including farmers, farmer cooperatives, and 
unincorporated farmer cooperative associations, in addition to their general 
employer problems, face special problems arising from perishable commodities and 
seasonal production that require adequate consideration.  It is also recognized that 
whatever may be the rights of disputants with respect to each other in any 
controversy regarding employment relations, they should not be permitted, in the 
conduct of their controversy, to intrude directly into the primary rights of 3rd 
parties to earn a livelihood, transact business, and engage in the ordinary affairs of 
life by any lawful means and free from molestation, interference, restraint, or 
coercion.
(3)  Negotiations of terms and conditions of work should result from voluntary 
agreement between employer and employee.  For the purpose of such negotiation an 
employee has the right, if the employee desires, to associate with others in 
organizing and bargaining collectively through representatives of the employee [s 
own choosing, without intimidation or coercion from any source.
(4)  It is the policy of the state, in order to preserve and promote the interests 
of the public, the employee, and the employer alike, to establish standards of fair 
conduct in employment relations and to provide a convenient, expeditious, and 
impartial tribunal by which these interests may have their respective rights and 
obligations adjudicated.  While limiting individual and group rights of aggression 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1145 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1770
and defense, the state substitutes processes of justice for the more primitive 
methods of trial by combat.
SECTION  1771 .  111.04 (1) and (2) of the statutes are consolidated, 
renumbered 111.04 and amended to read:
111.04   Rights of employees.   Employees shall have the right of self-
organization and the right to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain 
collectively through representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in lawful, 
concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or 
protection.  (2)  Employees shall also have the right to refrain from self-
organization; forming, joining, or assisting labor organizations; bargaining 
collectively through representatives; or engaging in activities for the purpose of 
collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection such activities.
SECTION  1772 .  111.04 (3) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1773 .  111.06 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.06 (1) (c)  To encourage or discourage membership in any labor 
organization, employee agency, committee, association, or representation plan by 
discrimination in regard to hiring, tenure, or other terms or conditions of 
employment except in a collective bargaining unit where an all-union agreement is 
in effect.  An employer may enter into an all-union agreement with the voluntarily 
recognized representative of the employees in a collective bargaining unit, where at 
least a majority of such employees voting have voted affirmatively, by secret ballot, 
in favor of the all-union agreement in a referendum conducted by the commission, 
except that where the bargaining representative has been certified by either the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1146 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1773
commission or the national labor relations board as the result of a representation 
election, no referendum is required to authorize the entry into an all-union 
agreement.  An authorization of an all-union agreement continues, subject to the 
right of either party to the all-union agreement to petition the commission to 
conduct a new referendum on the subject.  Upon receipt of the petition, if the 
commission determines there is reasonable ground to believe that the employees 
concerned have changed their attitude toward the all-union agreement, the 
commission shall conduct a referendum.  If the continuance of the all-union 
agreement is supported on a referendum by a vote at least equal to that provided in 
this paragraph for its initial authorization, it may continue, subject to the right to 
petition for a further vote by the procedure under this paragraph.  If the 
continuance of the all-union agreement is not supported on a referendum, it 
terminates at the expiration of the contract of which it is then a part or at the end of 
one year from the date of the announcement by the commission of the result of the 
referendum, whichever is earlier.  The commission shall declare any all-union 
agreement terminated whenever it finds that the labor organization involved has 
unreasonably refused to receive as a member any employee of such employer.  An 
interested person may, as provided in s. 111.07, request the commission to perform 
this duty.
SECTION  1774 .  111.06 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.06 (1) (e)  To bargain collectively with the representatives of less than a 
majority of the employer [s employees in a collective bargaining unit, or to enter into 
an all-union agreement except in the manner provided in par. (c).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1147 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1775
SECTION  1775 .  111.06 (1) (i) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.06 (1) (i)  To deduct labor organization dues or assessments from an 
employee [s earnings, unless the employer has been presented with an individual 
order therefor, signed by the employee personally, and terminable at the end of any 
year of its life by the employee giving to the employer at least 30 days [ written notice 
of the termination.  This paragraph applies to the extent permitted under federal 
law unless there is an all-union agreement in effect.  The employer shall give notice 
to the labor organization of receipt of a notice of termination.
SECTION  1776 .  111.31 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.31 (1)  The legislature finds that the practice of unfair discrimination in 
employment against properly qualified individuals by reason of their age, race, 
creed, color, disability, marital status, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual 
orientation, gender expression, gender identity, arrest record, conviction record, 
military service, use or nonuse of lawful products off the employer [s premises 
during nonworking hours, or declining to attend a meeting or to participate in any 
communication about religious matters or political matters, substantially and 
adversely affects the general welfare of the state.  Employers, labor organizations, 
employment agencies, and licensing agencies that deny employment opportunities 
and discriminate in employment against properly qualified individuals solely 
because of their age, race, creed, color, disability, marital status, sex, national 
origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender expression, gender identity, arrest 
record, conviction record, military service, use or nonuse of lawful products off the 
employer [s premises during nonworking hours, or declining to attend a meeting or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1148 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1776
to participate in any communication about religious matters or political matters, 
deprive those individuals of the earnings that are necessary to maintain a just and 
decent standard of living.
SECTION  1777 .  111.31 (1) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act 
.... (this act), is amended to read:
111.31 (1)  The legislature finds that the practice of unfair discrimination in 
employment against properly qualified individuals by reason of their age, race, 
creed, color, disability, marital status, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual 
orientation, gender expression, gender identity, arrest record, conviction record, 
military service, status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), 
use or nonuse of lawful products off the employer [s premises during nonworking 
hours, or declining to attend a meeting or to participate in any communication 
about religious matters or political matters, substantially and adversely affects the 
general welfare of the state.  Employers, labor organizations, employment agencies, 
and licensing agencies that deny employment opportunities and discriminate in 
employment against properly qualified individuals solely because of their age, race, 
creed, color, disability, marital status, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual 
orientation, gender expression, gender identity, arrest record, conviction record, 
military service, status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), 
use or nonuse of lawful products off the employer [s premises during nonworking 
hours, or declining to attend a meeting or to participate in any communication 
about religious matters or political matters, deprive those individuals of the 
earnings that are necessary to maintain a just and decent standard of living.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1149 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1778
SECTION  1778 .  111.31 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.31 (2)  It is the intent of the legislature to protect by law the rights of all 
individuals to obtain gainful employment and to enjoy privileges free from 
employment discrimination because of age, race, creed, color, disability, marital 
status, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender expression, gender 
identity, arrest record, conviction record, military service, use or nonuse of lawful 
products off the employer [s premises during nonworking hours, or declining to 
attend a meeting or to participate in any communication about religious matters or 
political matters, and to encourage the full, nondiscriminatory utilization of the 
productive resources of the state to the benefit of the state, the family, and all the 
people of the state.  It is the intent of the legislature in promulgating this 
subchapter to encourage employers to evaluate an employee or applicant for 
employment based upon the individual qualifications of the employee or applicant 
rather than upon a particular class to which the individual may belong.
SECTION  1779 .  111.31 (2) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act 
.... (this act), is amended to read:
111.31 (2)  It is the intent of the legislature to protect by law the rights of all 
individuals to obtain gainful employment and to enjoy privileges free from 
employment discrimination because of age, race, creed, color, disability, marital 
status, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender expression, gender 
identity, arrest record, conviction record, military service, status as a holder or 
nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), use or nonuse of lawful products off the 
employer [s premises during nonworking hours, or declining to attend a meeting or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1150 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1779
to participate in any communication about religious matters or political matters, 
and to encourage the full, nondiscriminatory utilization of the productive resources 
of the state to the benefit of the state, the family, and all the people of the state.  It 
is the intent of the legislature in promulgating this subchapter to encourage 
employers to evaluate an employee or applicant for employment based upon the 
individual qualifications of the employee or applicant rather than upon a particular 
class to which the individual may belong.
SECTION  1780 .  111.31 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.31 (3)  In the interpretation and application of this subchapter, and 
otherwise, it is declared to be the public policy of the state to encourage and foster to 
the fullest extent practicable the employment of all properly qualified individuals 
regardless of age, race, creed, color, disability, marital status, sex, national origin, 
ancestry, sexual orientation, gender expression, gender identity, arrest record, 
conviction record, military service, use or nonuse of lawful products off the 
employer [s premises during nonworking hours, or declining to attend a meeting or 
to participate in any communication about religious matters or political matters.  
Nothing in this subsection requires an affirmative action program to correct an 
imbalance in the work force.  This subchapter shall be liberally construed for the 
accomplishment of this purpose.
SECTION  1781 .  111.31 (3) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act 
.... (this act), is amended to read:
111.31 (3)  In the interpretation and application of this subchapter, and 
otherwise, it is declared to be the public policy of the state to encourage and foster to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1151 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1781
the fullest extent practicable the employment of all properly qualified individuals 
regardless of age, race, creed, color, disability, marital status, sex, national origin, 
ancestry, sexual orientation, gender expression, gender identity, arrest record, 
conviction record, military service, status as a holder or nonholder of a license 
under s. 343.03 (3r), use or nonuse of lawful products off the employer [s premises 
during nonworking hours, or declining to attend a meeting or to participate in any 
communication about religious matters or political matters.  Nothing in this 
subsection requires an affirmative action program to correct an imbalance in the 
work force.  This subchapter shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of 
this purpose.
SECTION  1782 .  111.32 (7j) of the statutes is created to read:
111.32 (7j)  XGender expression Y means an individual [s actual or perceived 
gender-related appearance, behavior, or expression, regardless of whether these 
traits are stereotypically associated with the individual [s assigned sex at birth.
SECTION  1783 .  111.32 (7k) of the statutes is created to read:
111.32 (7k)  XGender identity Y means an individual [s internal understanding 
of the individual [s gender, or the individual [s perceived gender identity.
SECTION  1784 .  111.32 (9m) of the statutes is created to read:
111.32 (9m)   XLawful product Y includes marijuana.
SECTION  1785 .  111.32 (11m) of the statutes is created to read:
111.32 (11m)   XMarijuana Y means all parts of the plants of the genus 
Cannabis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1152 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1785
part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or 
preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinols.
SECTION  1786 .  111.32 (12) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.32 (12)  XMarital status Y means the status of being married, single, 
divorced, separated, or widowed a surviving spouse.
SECTION  1787 .  111.321 of the statutes is amended to read:
111.321   Prohibited bases of discrimination.   Subject to ss. 111.33 to 
111.365, no employer, labor organization, employment agency, licensing agency, or 
other person may engage in any act of employment discrimination as specified in s. 
111.322 against any individual on the basis of age, race, creed, color, disability, 
marital status, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender expression, 
gender identity, arrest record, conviction record, military service, use or nonuse of 
lawful products off the employer [s premises during nonworking hours, or declining 
to attend a meeting or to participate in any communication about religious matters 
or political matters.
SECTION  1788 .  111.321 of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act .... 
(this act), is amended to read:
111.321   Prohibited bases of discrimination.   Subject to ss. 111.33 to 
111.365, no employer, labor organization, employment agency, licensing agency, or 
other person may engage in any act of employment discrimination as specified in s. 
111.322 against any individual on the basis of age, race, creed, color, disability, 
marital status, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender expression, 
gender identity, arrest record, conviction record, military service, status as a holder 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1153 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1788
or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), use or nonuse of lawful products off 
the employer [s premises during nonworking hours, or declining to attend a meeting 
or to participate in any communication about religious matters or political matters.
SECTION  1789 .  111.322 (2m) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.322 (2m)  (a)  The individual files a complaint or attempts to enforce any 
right under s. 103.02, 103.035, 103.10, 103.108, 103.11, 103.13, 103.28, 103.32, 
103.34, 103.455, 103.50, 104.12, 109.03, 109.07, 109.075, 146.997, or 995.55, or ss. 
101.58 to 101.599 or 103.64 to 103.82.
SECTION  1790 .  111.322 (2m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.322 (2m)  (b)  The individual testifies or assists in any action or proceeding 
held under or to enforce any right under s. 103.02, 103.035, 103.10, 103.108, 103.11, 
103.13, 103.28, 103.32, 103.34, 103.455, 103.50, 104.12, 109.03, 109.07, 109.075, 
146.997, or 995.55, or ss. 101.58 to 101.599 or 103.64 to 103.82.
SECTION  1791 .  111.322 (2m) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
111.322 (2m)  (c)  The individual files a complaint or attempts to enforce a 
right under s. 66.0903, 103.49, or 229.8275 or testifies or assists in any action or 
proceeding under s. 66.0903, 103.49, or 229.8275.
SECTION  1792 .  111.335 (3) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 111.335 (3) (ar).
SECTION  1793 .  111.335 (3) (ag) of the statutes is created to read:
111.335 (3) (ag) 1.  Employment discrimination because of conviction record 
includes a prospective employer requesting an applicant for employment, on an 
application form or otherwise, to supply information regarding the conviction 
record of the applicant, or otherwise inquiring into or considering the conviction 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1154 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1793
record of an applicant for employment, before the applicant has been selected for an 
interview by the prospective employer.
2.  Subdivision 1. does not prohibit a prospective employer from notifying 
applicants for employment that, subject to this section and ss. 111.321 and 111.322, 
an individual with a particular conviction record may be disqualified by law or 
under the employer [s policies from employment in particular positions.
3.  The department may promulgate rules to implement this paragraph.
SECTION  1794 .  111.335 (3) (ah) of the statutes is created to read:
111.335 (3) (ah) 1.  Employment discrimination because of conviction record 
includes, but is not limited to, requesting an applicant, employee, member, licensee, 
or any other individual, on an application form or otherwise, to supply information 
regarding a crime the record of which has been expunged under s. 973.015.  A 
request to supply information regarding criminal convictions shall not be construed 
as a request to supply information regarding a crime the record of which has been 
expunged under s. 973.015.
2.  Notwithstanding par. (ar) 1., and except as provided in par. (g), it is 
employment discrimination because of conviction record for an employer or 
licensing agency to engage in any act of employment discrimination specified in s. 
111.322 on the basis of a conviction the record of which has been expunged under s. 
973.015.  This subdivision does not apply to the extent that its application conflicts 
with federal law.
SECTION  1795 .  111.335 (3) (g) of the statutes is created to read:
111.335 (3) (g)  Notwithstanding s. 111.322, it is not employment 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1155 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1795
discrimination because of conviction record for the law enforcement standards 
board to refuse to certify, recertify, or allow to participate in a preparatory training 
program or to decertify under s. 165.85 an individual who has a conviction the 
record of which has been expunged under s. 973.015.
SECTION  1796 .  111.335 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.335 (4) (b)  It is employment discrimination because of conviction record 
for a licensing agency to refuse to license any individual under sub. (3) (a) (ar) 1. or 
to bar or terminate an individual from licensing under sub. (3) (a) (ar) 1. because 
the individual was adjudicated delinquent under ch. 938 for an offense other than 
an exempt offense.
SECTION  1797 .  111.335 (4) (c) 1. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.335 (4) (c) 1. (intro.)  If a licensing agency refuses to license an individual 
under sub. (3) (a) (ar) 1. or bars or terminates an individual from licensing under 
sub. (3) (a) (ar) 1., the licensing agency shall, subject to subd. 2., do all of the 
following:
SECTION  1798 .  111.335 (4) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.335 (4) (e)  A state licensing agency that may refuse to license individuals 
under sub. (3) (a) (ar) 1. or that may bar or terminate an individual from licensure 
under sub. (3) (a) (ar) 1. shall publish on the agency [s Internet site a document 
indicating the offenses or kinds of offenses that may result in such a refusal, bar, or 
termination.
SECTION  1799 .  111.335 (4) (f) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.335 (4) (f) 1.  A state licensing agency that may refuse to license 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1156 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1799
individuals under sub. (3) (a) (ar) 1. or that may bar or terminate individuals from 
licensing under sub. (3) (a) (ar) 1. shall allow an individual who does not possess a 
license to, without submitting a full application and without paying the fees 
applicable to applicants, apply to the agency for a determination of whether the 
individual would be disqualified from obtaining the license due to his or her 
conviction record.
SECTION  1800 .  111.35 (2) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.35 (2) (e)  Conflicts with any federal or state statute, rule or regulation.  
This paragraph does not apply with respect to violations concerning marijuana or 
tetrahydrocannabinols under 21 USC 841 to 865.
SECTION  1801 .  111.36 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.36   (title)  Sex, sexual orientation, gender expression, gender 
identity; exceptions and special cases.
SECTION  1802 .  111.36 (1) (br) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.36 (1) (br)  Engaging in harassment that consists of unwelcome verbal or 
physical conduct directed at another individual because of that individual [s gender, 
gender expression, or gender identity, other than the conduct described in par. (b), 
and that has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive 
work environment or has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with that 
individual [s work performance.  Under this paragraph, substantial interference 
with an employee [s work performance or creation of an intimidating, hostile, or 
offensive work environment is established when the conduct is such that a 
reasonable person under the same circumstances as the employee would consider 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1157 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1802
the conduct sufficiently severe or pervasive to interfere substantially with the 
person[s work performance or to create an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work 
environment.
SECTION  1803 .  111.36 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.36 (1) (c)  Discriminating against any woman individual on the basis of 
pregnancy, childbirth, maternity parental leave, or related medical conditions by 
engaging in any of the actions prohibited under s. 111.322, including, but not 
limited to, actions concerning fringe benefit programs covering illnesses and 
disability.
SECTION  1804 .  111.36 (1) (d) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.36 (1) (d) 1.  For any employer, labor organization, licensing agency or 
employment agency or other person to refuse Refusing to hire, employ, admit or 
license, or to bar or terminate any individual; barring or terminating from 
employment, membership, or licensure any individual,; or to discriminate 
discriminating against an any individual in promotion, in compensation, or in the 
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because of the individual [s sexual 
orientation; or, gender expression, or gender identity.
SECTION  1805 .  111.36 (1) (d) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.36 (1) (d) 2.  For any employer, labor organization, licensing agency or 
employment agency or other person to discharge Discharging or otherwise 
discriminate discriminating against any person because he or she the person has 
opposed any discriminatory practices under this paragraph or because he or she the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1158 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1805
person has made a complaint, testified or assisted in any proceeding under this 
paragraph.
SECTION  1806 .  111.36 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
111.36 (4)  Notwithstanding s. 111.322, it is not employment discrimination 
for an employer to require an employee to adhere to reasonable workplace 
appearance, grooming, and dress standards not precluded by other provisions of 
state or federal law, provided that an employer shall allow an employee to appear or 
dress consistently with the employee [s gender identity or gender expression.
SECTION  1807 .  111.39 (4) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.39 (4) (d)  The department shall serve a certified copy of the findings and 
order on the respondent, the order to have the same force as other orders of the 
department and be enforced as provided in s. 103.005.  The department shall also 
serve a certified copy of the findings and order on the complainant, together with a 
notice advising the complainant about the right to seek, and the time for seeking, 
review by the commission under sub. (5); about the right to bring, and the time for 
bringing, an action for judicial review under s. 111.395; and about the right to 
bring, and the time for bringing, an action under s. 111.397 (1) (a).  Any person 
aggrieved by noncompliance with the order may have the order enforced specifically 
by suit in equity.  If the examiner finds that the respondent has not engaged in 
discrimination, unfair honesty testing, or unfair genetic testing as alleged in the 
complaint, the department shall serve a certified copy of the examiner [s findings on 
the complainant, together with an order dismissing the complaint.
SECTION  1808 .  111.39 (5) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1159 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1808
111.39 (5) (b)  If no petition is filed the respondent or complainant does not file 
a petition under par. (a) within 21 days from the date that a copy of the findings and 
order of the examiner is mailed to the last-known address of the respondent served 
on that party, the findings and order shall be considered final for purposes of 
enforcement under sub. (4) (d).  If a timely petition is filed, the commission, on 
review, may either affirm, reverse, or modify the findings or order in whole or in 
part, or set aside the findings and order and remand to the department for further 
proceedings.  Such actions shall be based on a review of the evidence submitted.  If 
the commission is satisfied that a respondent or complainant has been prejudiced 
because of exceptional delay in the receipt of a copy of any findings and order it, the 
commission may extend the time another 21 days for filing the petition with the 
department.
SECTION  1809 .  111.39 (5) (d) of the statutes is created to read:
111.39 (5) (d)  The commission shall serve a certified copy of the commission [s 
decision on the respondent.  The commission shall also serve a certified copy of the 
commission [s decision on the complainant, together with a notice advising the 
complainant about the right to bring, and the time for bringing, an action for 
judicial review under s. 111.395 and about the right to bring, and the time for 
bringing, an action under s. 111.397 (1) (a).
SECTION  1810 .  111.397 of the statutes is created to read:
111.397  Civil action.  (1) (a)  Except as provided in this paragraph, the 
department or an individual alleged or found to have been discriminated against or 
subjected to unfair honesty testing or unfair genetic testing may bring an action in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1160 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1810
circuit court requesting the relief described in sub. (2) (a) against an employer, labor 
organization, or employment agency that is alleged or found to have engaged in that 
discrimination, unfair honesty testing, or unfair genetic testing.  The department or 
an individual alleged or found to have been discriminated against or subjected to 
unfair honesty testing or unfair genetic testing may not bring an action under this 
paragraph against a local governmental unit, as defined in s. 19.42 (7u), or against 
an employer, labor organization, or employment agency that employs fewer than 15 
individuals for each working day in each of 20 or more calendar weeks in the 
current or preceding year.
(b)  If a petition for judicial review of the findings and order of the commission 
concerning the same violation as the violation giving rise to the action under par. 
(a) is filed, the circuit court shall consolidate the proceeding for judicial review and 
the action under par. (a).
(c)  An individual alleged or found to have been discriminated against or 
subjected to unfair honesty testing or unfair genetic testing is not required to file a 
complaint under s. 111.39 or seek review under s. 111.395 in order for the 
department or the individual to bring an action under par. (a).
(d)  An action under par. (a) shall be commenced within 300 days after the 
alleged discrimination, unfair honesty testing, or unfair genetic testing occurred.
(2) (a)  Subject to pars. (b) and (c), in an action under sub. (1) (a), if the circuit 
court finds that discrimination, unfair honesty testing, or unfair genetic testing has 
occurred, or if such a finding has been made by an examiner or the commission and 
not been further appealed, the circuit court may order any relief that an examiner 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1161 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1810
would be empowered to order under s. 111.39 (4) (c) after a hearing on a complaint 
filed under s. 111.39.  In addition, the circuit court shall order the defendant to pay 
to the individual discriminated against or subjected to unfair honesty testing or 
unfair genetic testing any other compensatory damages, and punitive damages 
under s. 895.043 that the circuit court or jury finds appropriate, plus reasonable 
costs and attorney fees incurred in the action.  If any relief was ordered under s. 
111.39 or 111.395, the circuit court shall specify whether the relief ordered under 
this paragraph is in addition to or replaces the relief ordered under s. 111.39 or 
111.395.  The sum of the amount of compensatory damages for future economic 
losses and for pain and suffering, emotional distress, mental anguish, loss of 
enjoyment of life, and other noneconomic losses and the amount of punitive 
damages that a circuit court may order may not exceed the following:
1.  In the case of a defendant that employs 100 or fewer employees for each 
working day in each of 20 or more calendar weeks in the current or preceding year, 
$50,000.
2.  In the case of a defendant that employs more than 100 but fewer than 201 
employees for each working day in each of 20 or more calendar weeks in the current 
or preceding year, $100,000.
3.  In the case of a defendant that employs more than 200 but fewer than 501 
employees for each working day in each of 20 or more calendar weeks in the current 
or preceding year, $200,000.
4.  In the case of a defendant that employs more than 500 employees for each 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1162 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1810
working day in each of 20 or more calendar weeks in the current or preceding year, 
$300,000.
(b)  If the circuit court orders a payment under par. (a) because of a violation of 
s. 111.321, 111.37, or 111.372 by an individual employed by an employer, the 
employer of that individual is liable for the payment.
(c) 1.  In this paragraph, Xconsumer price index Y means the average of the 
consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, as determined by 
the bureau of labor statistics of the federal department of labor.
2.  Except as provided in this subdivision, beginning on July 1, 2024, and on 
each July 1 after that, the department shall adjust the amounts specified in par. (a) 
1., 2., 3., and 4. by calculating the percentage difference between the consumer price 
index for the 12-month period ending on December 31 of the preceding year and the 
consumer price index for the 12-month period ending on December 31 of the year 
before the preceding year and adjusting those amounts by that percentage 
difference.  The department shall publish the adjusted amounts calculated under 
this subdivision in the Wisconsin Administrative Register, and the adjusted 
amounts shall apply to actions commenced under sub. (1) (a) beginning on July 1 of 
the year of publication.  This subdivision does not apply if the consumer price index 
for the 12-month period ending on December 31 of the preceding year did not 
increase over the consumer price index for the 12-month period ending on 
December 31 of the year before the preceding year.
SECTION  1811 .  111.70 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (1) (a)  XCollective bargaining Y means the performance of the mutual 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1163 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1811
obligation of a municipal employer, through its officers and agents, and the 
representative of its municipal employees in a collective bargaining unit, to meet 
and confer at reasonable times, in good faith, with the intention of reaching an 
agreement, or to resolve questions arising under such an agreement, with respect 
to wages, hours, and conditions of employment for public safety employees or, for 
transit employees and, or for municipal employees in a collective bargaining unit 
that contains a frontline worker; with respect to wages for general municipal 
employees, who are in a collective bargaining unit that does not contain a frontline 
worker; and with respect to a requirement of the municipal employer for a 
municipal employee to perform law enforcement and fire fighting services under s. 
60.553, 61.66, or 62.13 (2e), except as provided in sub. (4) (mb) and (mc) and s. 40.81 
(3) and except that a municipal employer shall not meet and confer with respect to 
any proposal to diminish or abridge the rights guaranteed to any public safety 
employees under ch. 164.  Collective bargaining includes the reduction of any 
agreement reached to a written and signed document.
SECTION  1812 .  111.70 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (1) (f)  XFair-share agreement Y means an agreement between a 
municipal employer and a labor organization that represents public safety 
employees or, transit employees, or a frontline worker under which all or any of the 
public safety employees or transit employees in the collective bargaining unit or all 
or any of the employees in a collective bargaining unit containing a frontline worker 
are required to pay their proportionate share of the cost of the collective bargaining 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1164 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1812
process and contract administration measured by the amount of dues uniformly 
required of all members.
SECTION  1813 .  111.70 (1) (fd) of the statutes is created to read:
111.70 (1) (fd)  XFrontline worker Y means a municipal employee who is 
determined to be a frontline worker under sub. (4) (bm) 2.
SECTION  1814 .  111.70 (1) (fm) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (1) (fm)  XGeneral municipal employee Y means a municipal employee 
who is not a public safety employee or, a transit employee, or a frontline worker.
SECTION  1815 .  111.70 (1) (n) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (1) (n)  XReferendum Y means a proceeding conducted by the 
commission in which public safety employees or transit employees in a collective 
bargaining unit or municipal employees in a collective bargaining unit containing a 
frontline worker may cast a secret ballot on the question of authorizing a labor 
organization and the employer to continue a fair-share agreement.
SECTION  1816 .  111.70 (1) (p) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (1) (p)  XTransit employee Y means a municipal employee who is 
determined to be a transit employee under sub. (4) (bm) 1.
SECTION  1817 .  111.70 (2) of the statutes is renumbered 111.70 (2) (a) and 
amended to read:
111.70 (2) (a)  Municipal employees have the right of self-organization, and the 
right to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through 
representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in lawful, concerted activities 
for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1165 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1817
Municipal employees have the right to refrain from any and all such activities.  A 
general municipal employee may not be covered by a fair-share agreement unless 
the general municipal employee is in a collective bargaining unit containing a 
frontline worker.  Unless the general municipal employee is covered by a fair-share 
agreement, a general municipal employee has the right to refrain from paying dues 
while remaining a member of a collective bargaining unit.  A public safety employee 
or, a transit employee, however, or a municipal employee in a collective bargaining 
unit containing a frontline worker may be covered by a fair-share agreement and be 
required to pay dues in the manner provided in  a  the fair-share agreement; a fair-
share agreement covering a public safety employee or a transit employee must 
contain a provision requiring the municipal employer to deduct the amount of dues 
as certified by the labor organization from the earnings of the employee affected by 
the fair-share agreement and to pay the amount deducted to the labor organization.  
A fair-share agreement covering a public safety employee or transit employee is 
subject to the right of the municipal employer or a labor organization to petition the 
commission to conduct a referendum.  Such petition must be supported by proof 
that at least 30 percent of the employees in the collective bargaining unit desire that 
the fair-share agreement be terminated.  Upon so finding, the commission shall 
conduct a referendum.  If the continuation of the agreement is not supported by at 
least the majority of the eligible employees, it shall terminate.  The commission 
shall declare any fair-share agreement suspended upon such conditions and for 
such time as the commission decides whenever it finds that the labor organization 
involved has refused on the basis of race, color, sexual orientation, creed, or sex to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1166 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1817
receive as a member any public safety employee or transit eligible municipal 
employee of the municipal employer in the bargaining unit involved, and such 
agreement is subject to this duty of the commission.  Any of the parties to such 
agreement or any public safety employee or transit municipal employee covered by 
the agreement may come before the commission, as provided in s. 111.07, and ask 
the performance of this duty.
SECTION  1818 .  111.70 (2) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
111.70 (2) (b)  General municipal employees who are not in a collective 
bargaining unit containing a frontline worker have the right to have their 
municipal employer consult with them, through a representative of their own 
choosing, with no intention of reaching an agreement, with respect to wages, hours, 
and conditions of employment.  The right may be exercised either when the 
municipal employer proposes or implements policy changes affecting wages, hours, 
or conditions of employment or, if no policy changes are proposed or implemented, at 
least quarterly.
SECTION  1819 .  111.70 (3) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (3) (a) 3.  To encourage or discourage a membership in any labor 
organization by discrimination in regard to hiring, tenure, or other terms or 
conditions of employment; but the prohibition shall not apply to a fair-share 
agreement that covers public safety employees or transit employees.
SECTION  1820 .  111.70 (3) (a) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (3) (a) 5.  To violate any collective bargaining agreement previously 
agreed upon by the parties with respect to wages, hours, and conditions of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1167 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1820
employment affecting public safety employees or, transit employees, or municipal 
employees in a collective bargaining unit containing a frontline worker, including 
an agreement to arbitrate questions arising as to the meaning or application of the 
terms of a collective bargaining agreement or to accept the terms of such arbitration 
award, where previously the parties have agreed to accept such award as final and 
binding upon them or to violate any collective bargaining agreement affecting a 
collective bargaining unit containing only general municipal employees, that was 
previously agreed upon by the parties with respect to wages.
SECTION  1821 .  111.70 (3) (a) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (3) (a) 6.  To deduct labor organization dues from the earnings of a 
public safety employee or, a transit employee, or a municipal employee who is in a 
collective bargaining unit containing a frontline worker unless the municipal 
employer has been presented with an individual order therefor, signed by the 
employee personally, and terminable by at least the end of any year of its life or 
earlier by the public safety employee or transit municipal employee giving at least 
30 days[ written notice of such termination to the municipal employer and to the 
representative organization, except when a fair-share agreement is in effect.
SECTION  1822 .  111.70 (3) (a) 9. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (3) (a) 9.  If the collective bargaining unit contains a public safety 
employee or, transit employee, or frontline worker, after a collective bargaining 
agreement expires and before another collective bargaining agreement takes effect, 
to fail to follow any fair-share agreement in the expired collective bargaining 
agreement.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1168 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1823
SECTION  1823 .  111.70 (3g) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (3g)  WAGE DEDUCTION  PROHIBITION .  A municipal employer may not 
deduct labor organization dues from the earnings of a general municipal employee, 
unless the general municipal employee is in a collective bargaining unit that 
contains a frontline worker, or from the earnings of a supervisor.
SECTION  1824 .  111.70 (4) (bm) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (4) (bm) (title)  Transit employee or frontline worker determination.
SECTION  1825 .  111.70 (4) (bm) of the statutes is renumbered 111.70 (4) (bm) 
1.
SECTION  1826 .  111.70 (4) (bm) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
111.70 (4) (bm) 2.  The commission shall determine that a municipal employee 
is a frontline worker if the commission finds that the municipal employee has 
regular job duties that include interacting with members of the public or with large 
populations of people or that directly involve the maintenance of public works.  The 
commission may not determine that a public safety employee or a transit employee 
is a frontline worker.
SECTION  1827 .  111.70 (4) (cg) (title), 1., 2., 3., 4. and 5. of the statutes are 
amended to read:
111.70 (4) (cg) (title)  Methods for peaceful settlement of disputes; transit 
employees and municipal employees in a collective bargaining unit containing a 
frontline worker.   1.  ZNotice of commencement of contract negotiations. [  To advise 
the commission of the commencement of contract negotiations involving a collective 
bargaining unit containing transit employees or a collective bargaining unit 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1169 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1827
containing a frontline worker, whenever either party requests the other to reopen 
negotiations under a binding collective bargaining agreement, or the parties 
otherwise commence negotiations if no collective bargaining agreement exists, the 
party requesting negotiations shall immediately notify the commission in writing.  
Upon failure of the requesting party to provide notice, the other party may provide 
notice to the commission.  The notice shall specify the expiration date of the existing 
collective bargaining agreement, if any, and shall provide any additional 
information the commission may require on a form provided by the commission.
2.  ZPresentation of initial proposals; open meetings. [  The meetings between 
parties to a collective bargaining agreement or proposed collective bargaining 
agreement under this subchapter that involve a collective bargaining unit 
containing a transit employee or a frontline worker and that are held to present 
initial bargaining proposals, along with supporting rationale, are open to the 
public.  Each party shall submit its initial bargaining proposals to the other party 
in writing.  Failure to comply with this subdivision does not invalidate a collective 
bargaining agreement under this subchapter.
3.  ZMediation. [  The commission or its designee shall function as mediator in 
labor disputes involving transit employees or municipal employees in a collective 
bargaining unit containing a frontline worker upon request of one or both of the 
parties, or upon initiation of the commission.  The function of the mediator is to 
encourage voluntary settlement by the parties.  No mediator has the power of 
compulsion.
4.  ZGrievance arbitration. [  Parties to a dispute pertaining to the meaning or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1170 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1827
application of the terms of a written collective bargaining agreement involving a 
collective bargaining unit containing a transit employee or a frontline worker may 
agree in writing to have the commission or any other appropriate agency serve as 
arbitrator or may designate any other competent, impartial, and disinterested 
person to serve as an arbitrator.
5.  ZVoluntary impasse resolution procedures. [  In addition to the other 
impasse resolution procedures provided in this paragraph, a municipal employer 
that employs a transit employee or a municipal employee in a collective bargaining 
unit containing a frontline worker and a labor organization may at any time, as a 
permissive subject of bargaining, agree in writing to a dispute settlement 
procedure, including binding interest arbitration, which is acceptable to the parties 
for resolving an impasse over terms of any collective bargaining agreement under 
this subchapter.  The parties shall file a copy of the agreement with the 
commission.  If the parties agree to any form of binding interest arbitration, the 
arbitrator shall give weight to the factors enumerated under subds. 7. and 7g.
SECTION  1828 .  111.70 (4) (cg) 6. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (4) (cg) 6. a.  If, in any collective bargaining unit containing transit 
employees or a frontline worker, a dispute has not been settled after a reasonable 
period of negotiation and after mediation by the commission under subd. 3. and 
other settlement procedures, if any, established by the parties have been exhausted, 
and the parties are deadlocked with respect to any dispute between them over 
wages, hours, or conditions of employment to be included in a new collective 
bargaining agreement, either party, or the parties jointly, may petition the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1171 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1828
commission, in writing, to initiate compulsory, final, and binding arbitration, as 
provided in this paragraph.  At the time the petition is filed, the petitioning party 
shall submit in writing to the other party and the commission its preliminary final 
offer containing its latest proposals on all issues in dispute.  Within 14 calendar 
days after the date of that submission, the other party shall submit in writing its 
preliminary final offer on all disputed issues to the petitioning party and the 
commission.  If a petition is filed jointly, both parties shall exchange their 
preliminary final offers in writing and submit copies to the commission when the 
petition is filed.
SECTION  1829 .  111.70 (4) (cg) 7r. d., e. and f. of the statutes are amended to 
read:
111.70 (4) (cg) 7r. d.  Comparison of wages, hours, and conditions of 
employment of the transit municipal employees involved in the arbitration 
proceedings with the wages, hours, and conditions of employment of other 
employees performing similar services.
e.  Comparison of the wages, hours, and conditions of employment of the 
transit municipal employees involved in the arbitration proceedings with the wages, 
hours, and conditions of employment of other employees generally in public 
employment in the same community and in comparable communities.
f.  Comparison of the wages, hours, and conditions of employment of the 
transit municipal employees involved in the arbitration proceedings with the wages, 
hours, and conditions of employment of other employees in private employment in 
the same community and in comparable communities.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1172 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1830
SECTION  1830 .  111.70 (4) (cg) 7r. h. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (4) (cg) 7r. h.  The overall compensation presently received by the 
transit municipal employees involved in the arbitration proceedings, including 
direct wage compensation, vacation, holidays, and excused time, insurance and 
pensions, medical and hospitalization benefits, the continuity and stability of 
employment, and all other benefits received.
SECTION  1831 .  111.70 (4) (cg) 8m. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (4) (cg) 8m.  ZTerm of agreement; reopening of negotiations. [  Except for 
the initial collective bargaining agreement between the parties and except as the 
parties otherwise agree, every collective bargaining agreement covering transit 
employees or a frontline worker shall be for a term of 2 years, but in no case may a 
collective bargaining agreement for any collective bargaining unit consisting of 
transit employees subject to this paragraph be for a term exceeding 3 years.  No 
arbitration award involving transit employees or a frontline worker may contain a 
provision for reopening of negotiations during the term of a collective bargaining 
agreement, unless both parties agree to such a provision.  The requirement for 
agreement by both parties does not apply to a provision for reopening of 
negotiations with respect to any portion of an agreement that is declared invalid by 
a court or administrative agency or rendered invalid by the enactment of a law or 
promulgation of a federal regulation.
SECTION  1832 .  111.70 (4) (d) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (4) (d) 1.  A representative chosen for the purposes of collective 
bargaining by a majority of the public safety employees or transit municipal 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1173 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1832
employees voting in a collective bargaining unit shall be the exclusive 
representative of all employees in the unit for the purpose of collective bargaining.  
A representative chosen for the purposes of collective bargaining by at least 51 
percent of the general municipal employees in a collective bargaining unit shall be 
the exclusive representative of all employees in the unit for the purpose of collective 
bargaining.  Any individual employee, or any minority group of employees in any 
collective bargaining unit, shall have the right to present grievances to the 
municipal employer in person or through representatives of their own choosing, and 
the municipal employer shall confer with the employee in relation thereto, if the 
majority representative has been afforded the opportunity to be present at the 
conferences.  Any adjustment resulting from these conferences may not be 
inconsistent with the conditions of employment established by the majority 
representative and the municipal employer.
SECTION  1833 .  111.70 (4) (d) 2. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (4) (d) 2. a.  The commission shall determine the appropriate collective 
bargaining unit for the purpose of collective bargaining and shall whenever possible 
avoid fragmentation by maintaining as few collective bargaining units as 
practicable in keeping with the size of the total municipal workforce.  The 
commission may decide whether, in a particular case, the municipal employees in 
the same or several departments, divisions, institutions, crafts, professions, or 
other occupational groupings constitute a collective bargaining unit.  Before 
making its determination, the commission may provide an opportunity for the 
municipal employees concerned to determine, by secret ballot, whether they desire 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1174 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1833
to be established as a separate collective bargaining unit.  The commission may not 
decide, however, that any group of municipal employees constitutes an appropriate 
collective bargaining unit if the group includes both professional employees and 
nonprofessional employees, unless a majority of the professional employees vote for 
inclusion in the unit.  The commission may not decide that any group of municipal 
employees constitutes an appropriate collective bargaining unit if the group 
includes both school district employees and general municipal employees who are 
not school district employees.  The commission may not decide that any group of 
municipal employees constitutes an appropriate collective bargaining unit if the 
group includes both public safety employees and general municipal employees, if 
the group includes both transit employees and general municipal employees, or if 
the group includes both transit employees and public safety employees place public 
safety employees in a collective bargaining unit with employees who are not public 
safety employees or place transit employees in a collective bargaining unit with 
employees who are not transit employees.  The commission may place frontline 
workers in a collective bargaining unit with municipal employees who are not 
frontline workers if the commission determines it is appropriate; if the commission 
places in a collective bargaining unit frontline workers and municipal employees 
who are not frontline workers, the collective bargaining unit is treated as if all 
employees in the collective bargaining unit are frontline workers.  The commission 
may not decide that any group of municipal employees constitutes an appropriate 
collective bargaining unit if the group includes both craft employees and noncraft 
employees unless a majority of the craft employees vote for inclusion in the unit.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1175 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1833
The commission shall place the professional employees who are assigned to perform 
any services at a charter school, as defined in s. 115.001 (1), in a separate collective 
bargaining unit from a unit that includes any other professional employees 
whenever at least 30 percent of those professional employees request an election to 
be held to determine that issue and a majority of the professional employees at the 
charter school who cast votes in the election decide to be represented in a separate 
collective bargaining unit.
SECTION  1834 .  111.70 (4) (d) 3. a. and c. of the statutes are consolidated and 
renumbered 111.70 (4) (d) 3.
SECTION  1835 .  111.70 (4) (d) 3. b. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1836 .  111.70 (4) (mb) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (4) (mb)  Prohibited subjects of bargaining; general municipal 
employees.   (intro.)  The municipal employer is prohibited from bargaining 
collectively with a collective bargaining unit containing  a  only general municipal 
employee employees with respect to any of the following:
SECTION  1837 .  111.70 (4) (mbb) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (4) (mbb)  Consumer price index change.   For purposes of determining 
compliance with par. (mb), the commission shall provide, upon request, to a 
municipal employer or to any representative of a collective bargaining unit 
containing  a  only general municipal employee employees, the consumer price index 
change during any 12-month period.  The commission may get the information from 
the department of revenue.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1176 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1838
SECTION  1838 .  111.70 (4) (mc) (intro.), 6., 7. and 8. of the statutes are 
amended to read:
111.70 (4) (mc)  Prohibited subjects of bargaining; public safety employees, 
transit employees, and frontline workers.   (intro.)  The municipal employer is 
prohibited from bargaining collectively with a collective bargaining unit containing 
a public safety employee, transit employee, or frontline worker with respect to any of 
the following:
6.  Except for whether or not to provide health care coverage and the employee 
premium contribution, all costs and payments associated with health care coverage 
plans and the design and selection of health care coverage plans by the municipal 
employer for public safety employees, and the impact of such costs and payments 
and the design and selection of the health care coverage plans on the wages, hours, 
and conditions of employment of the public safety employee.  For purposes of this 
subdivision, XdesignY does not include the decision as to who is covered by a health 
care coverage plan selected by the municipal employer.
7.  In any bargaining unit composed of public safety employees, in a 
municipality with a retirement system established under chapter 396, laws of 1937, 
any terms of such a retirement system, including, but not limited to, the 
contribution rates, pension benefit calculation, or factors used to calculate a 
pension benefit under the system, with any bargaining unit composed of public 
safety employees.  For such a retirement system, the terms of the system, including, 
but not limited to, the contribution rates, pension benefit calculation, or factors 
used to calculate a pension benefit under the system for employees who are part of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1177 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1838
a bargaining unit composed of public safety employees, shall be the same as those in 
effect on December 30, 2022.
8.  In any bargaining unit composed of public safety employees or employees 
treated as public safety employees under par. (bn), in a municipality with a 
retirement system established under chapter 201, laws of 1937, any terms of such a 
retirement system, including, but not limited to, the costs, payments, contribution 
rates, pension benefit calculation, or design, including all impacts or effects that 
any changes made to the retirement system might have upon the wages, hours, or 
conditions of employment, with any bargaining unit composed of public safety 
employees or any employees treated as public safety employees under par. (bn).
SECTION  1839 .  111.70 (7m) (c) 1. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
111.70 (7m)  (c) 1. a.  Any labor organization that represents public safety 
employees or, transit employees, or a frontline worker which violates sub. (4) (L) 
may not collect any dues under a collective bargaining agreement or under a fair-
share agreement from any employee covered by either agreement for a period of one 
year.  At the end of the period of suspension, any such agreement shall be reinstated 
unless the labor organization is no longer authorized to represent the public safety 
employees or transit municipal employees covered by the collective bargaining 
agreement or fair-share agreement or the agreement is no longer in effect.
SECTION  1840 .  111.81 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 111.81 (1s) and 
amended to read:
111.81 (1s)  XCollective bargaining Y means the performance of the mutual 
obligation of the state as an employer, by its officers and agents, and the 
representatives of its employees, to meet and confer at reasonable times, in good 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1178 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1840
faith, with respect to the subjects of bargaining provided in s. 111.91 (1), with 
respect to for public safety employees, with respect to the subjects of bargaining 
provided in s. 111.91 (1w) for employees in a collective bargaining unit containing a 
frontline worker, and with respect to the subjects of bargaining provided in s. 
111.91 (3), with respect to for general employees who are in a collective bargaining 
unit that does not contain a frontline worker, with the intention of reaching an 
agreement, or to resolve questions arising under such an agreement.  The duty to 
bargain, however, does not compel either party to agree to a proposal or require the 
making of a concession.  Collective bargaining includes the reduction of any 
agreement reached to a written and signed document.
SECTION  1841 .  111.81 (1b) of the statutes is created to read:
111.81 (1b)  XAcademic staff Y has the meaning given in s. 36.05 (1) but does 
not include academic staff under s. 36.15 (1) (a) that are supervisors, management 
employees, and individuals who are privy to confidential matters affecting the 
employer-employee relationship.
SECTION  1842 .  111.81 (1d) of the statutes is created to read:
111.81 (1d)  XAuthority Y means a body created under subch. II of ch. 114 or ch. 
231, 232, 233, 234, 237, 238, or 279.
SECTION  1843 .  111.81 (7) (ag) of the statutes is created to read:
111.81 (7) (ag)  An employee of an authority.
SECTION  1844 .  111.81 (7) (ar) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.81 (7) (ar)  Any employee who is employed by the University of Wisconsin 
System, except an employee who is assigned to the University of Wisconsin-
Madison, and except including faculty, and except academic staff under s. 36.15.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1179 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1845
SECTION  1845 .  111.81 (7) (at) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.81 (7) (at)  Any employee who is employed by the University of Wisconsin 
System and assigned to the University of Wisconsin-Madison except including 
faculty and except academic staff under s. 36.15.
SECTION  1846 .  111.81 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.81 (8)  XEmployer Y means the state of Wisconsin and includes an 
authority.
SECTION  1847 .  111.81 (8p) of the statutes is created to read:
111.81 (8p)  XFacultyY has the meaning given in s. 36.05 (8) and includes 
faculty who are supervisors or management employees but excludes faculty holding 
a limited appointment under s. 36.17 and deans.
SECTION  1848 .  111.81 (9) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.81 (9)  XFair-share agreement Y means an agreement between the 
employer and a labor organization representing public safety employees or a 
frontline worker under which all of the public safety employees in the collective 
bargaining unit or all of the employees in a collective bargaining unit containing a 
frontline worker are required to pay their proportionate share of the cost of the 
collective bargaining process and contract administration measured by the amount 
of dues uniformly required of all members.
SECTION  1849 .  111.81 (9b) of the statutes is created to read:
111.81 (9b)  XFrontline worker Y means an employee who is determined to be a 
frontline worker under s. 111.817.
SECTION  1850 .  111.81 (9g) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1180 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1850
111.81 (9g)  XGeneral employee Y means an employee who is not a public safety 
employee or a frontline worker.
SECTION  1851 .  111.81 (12) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.81 (12) (intro.)  XLabor organization Y means any employee organization 
whose purpose is to represent employees in collective bargaining with the employer, 
or its agents, on matters that are subject to collective bargaining under s. 111.91 (1), 
(1w), or (3), whichever is applicable; but the term shall not include any 
organization:
SECTION  1852 .  111.81 (12) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.81 (12) (b)  Which discriminates with regard to the terms or conditions of 
membership because of race, color, creed, sex, age, sexual orientation, gender 
expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), gender identity, as defined in s. 111.32 (7k), 
or national origin.
SECTION  1853 .  111.81 (12m) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.81 (12m)   XMaintenance of membership agreement Y means an agreement 
between the employer and a labor organization representing public safety 
employees or a frontline worker which requires that all of the public safety 
employees or employees who are in a collective bargaining unit containing a 
frontline worker whose dues are being deducted from earnings under s. 20.921 (1) 
or 111.84 (1) (f) at the time the agreement takes effect shall continue to have dues 
deducted for the duration of the agreement, and that dues shall be deducted from 
the earnings of all public safety such employees who are hired on or after the 
effective date of the agreement.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1181 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1854
SECTION  1854 .  111.81 (15m) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.81 (15m)   XProgram assistant Y or Xproject assistant Y means a graduate 
student enrolled in the University of Wisconsin System who is assigned to conduct 
research, training, administrative responsibilities or other academic or academic 
support projects or programs, except regular preparation of instructional materials 
for courses or manual or clerical assignments, under the supervision of a member of 
the faculty or academic staff, as defined in s. 36.05 (1) or (8), primarily for the 
benefit of the university, faculty or academic staff supervisor or a granting agency.  
XProject assistant Y or Xprogram assistant Y does not include a graduate student who 
does work which is primarily for the benefit of the student [s own learning and 
research and which is independent or self-directed.
SECTION  1855 .  111.81 (16) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.81 (16)  XReferendum Y means a proceeding conducted by the commission 
in which public safety employees in a collective bargaining unit or all employees in 
a collective bargaining unit containing a frontline worker may cast a secret ballot on 
the question of directing the labor organization and the employer to enter into a 
fair-share or maintenance of membership agreement or to terminate such an 
agreement.
SECTION  1856 .  111.815 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.815 (1)  In the furtherance of this subchapter, the state shall be 
considered as a single employer and employment relations policies and practices 
throughout the state service shall be as consistent as practicable.  The division 
shall negotiate and administer collective bargaining agreements.  To coordinate the 
employer position in the negotiation of agreements, the division shall maintain 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1182 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1856
close liaison with the legislature relative to the negotiation of agreements and the 
fiscal ramifications of those agreements.  Except with respect to the collective 
bargaining units specified in s. 111.825 (1r) and (1t), the division is responsible for 
the employer functions of the executive branch under this subchapter, and shall 
coordinate its collective bargaining activities with operating state agencies on 
matters of agency concern and with operating authorities on matters of authority 
concern.  The legislative branch shall act upon those portions of tentative 
agreements negotiated by the division that require legislative action.  With respect 
to the collective bargaining units specified in s. 111.825 (1r), the Board of Regents of 
the University of Wisconsin System is responsible for the employer functions under 
this subchapter.  With respect to the collective bargaining units specified in s. 
111.825 (1t), the chancellor of the University of Wisconsin-Madison is responsible 
for the employer functions under this subchapter.  With respect to the collective 
bargaining unit specified in s. 111.825 (1r) (ef), the governing board of the charter 
school established by contract under s. 118.40 (2r) (cm), 2013 stats., is responsible 
for the employer functions under this subchapter.
SECTION  1857 .  111.817 of the statutes is created to read:
111.817   Duty of commission; determination of frontline workers.   The 
commission shall determine that an employee is a frontline worker if the 
commission finds that the employee has regular job duties that include interacting 
with members of the public or with large populations of people or that directly 
involve the maintenance of public works.  The commission may not determine that 
a public safety employee is a frontline worker.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1183 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1858
SECTION  1858 .  111.82 of the statutes is renumbered 111.82 (1) and amended 
to read:
111.82 (1)  Employees have the right of self-organization and the right to form, 
join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of 
their own choosing under this subchapter, and to engage in lawful, concerted 
activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection.  
Employees also have the right to refrain from any or all of such activities.  A general 
employee may not be covered by a fair-share agreement unless the general employee 
is in a collective bargaining unit containing a frontline worker.  Unless the general 
employee is covered by a fair-share agreement, a general employee has the right to 
refrain from paying dues while remaining a member of a collective bargaining unit.
SECTION  1859 .  111.82 (2) of the statutes is created to read:
111.82 (2)  General employees who are not in a collective bargaining unit 
containing a frontline worker have the right to have their employer consult with 
them, through a representative of their own choosing, with no intention of reaching 
an agreement, with respect to wages, hours, and conditions of employment.  The 
right may be exercised either when the employer proposes or implements policy 
changes affecting wages, hours, or conditions of employment or, if no policy changes 
are proposed or implemented, at least quarterly.
SECTION  1860 .  111.825 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.825 (1) (intro.)  It is the legislative intent that in order to foster 
meaningful collective bargaining, units must be structured in such a way as to avoid 
excessive fragmentation whenever possible.  In accordance with this policy, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1184 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1860
collective bargaining units for employees in the classified service of the state and for 
employees of authorities are structured on a statewide basis with one collective 
bargaining unit for each of the following occupational groups:
SECTION  1861 .  111.825 (1r) (am) and (ar) of the statutes are created to read:
111.825 (1r) (am)  Faculty.
(ar)  Academic staff.
SECTION  1862 .  111.825 (1t) (am) and (ar) of the statutes are created to read:
111.825 (1t) (am)  Faculty.
(ar)  Academic staff.
SECTION  1863 .  111.825 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.825 (3)  The commission shall assign employees to the appropriate 
collective bargaining units set forth in subs. (1), (1r), (1t), and (2).  The commission 
may place frontline workers in a collective bargaining unit with employees who are 
not frontline workers if the commission determines it is appropriate; if the 
commission places in a collective bargaining unit frontline workers and employees 
who are not frontline workers, the collective bargaining unit is treated as if all 
employees in the collective bargaining unit are frontline workers and may bargain 
as provided in s. 111.91 (1w).
SECTION  1864 .  111.825 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.825 (5)  Although supervisors are not considered employees for purposes 
of this subchapter, the commission may consider a petition for a statewide collective 
bargaining unit of professional supervisors or a statewide unit of nonprofessional 
supervisors in the classified service, but the representative of supervisors may not 
be affiliated with any labor organization representing employees.  For purposes of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1185 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1864
this subsection, affiliation does not include membership in a national, state, county 
or municipal federation of national or international labor organizations.  The 
certified representative of supervisors who are not public safety employees or 
frontline workers may not bargain collectively with respect to any matter other than 
wages as provided in s. 111.91 (3), and the certified representative of supervisors 
who are public safety employees may not bargain collectively with respect to any 
matter other than wages and fringe benefits as provided in s. 111.91 (1), and the 
certified representative of supervisors who are frontline workers may bargain as 
provided in s. 111.91 (1w).
SECTION  1865 .  111.83 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.83 (1)  Except as provided in sub. (5), a representative chosen for the 
purposes of collective bargaining by at least 51 percent of the general employees in 
a collective bargaining unit shall be the exclusive representative of all of the 
employees in such unit for the purposes of collective bargaining.  A  representative 
chosen for the purposes of collective bargaining by a majority of the public safety 
employees voting in a collective bargaining unit shall be the exclusive 
representative of all of the employees in such unit for the purposes of collective 
bargaining.  Any individual employee, or any minority group of employees in any 
collective bargaining unit, may present grievances to the employer in person, or 
through representatives of their own choosing, and the employer shall confer with 
the employee or group of employees in relation thereto if the majority representative 
has been afforded the opportunity to be present at the conference.  Any adjustment 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1186 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1865
resulting from such a conference may not be inconsistent with the conditions of 
employment established by the majority representative and the employer.
SECTION  1866 .  111.83 (3) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 111.83 (3).
SECTION  1867 .  111.83 (3) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1868 .  111.83 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.83 (4)  Whenever an election has been conducted under sub. (3) (a) in 
which the name of more than one proposed representative appears on the ballot and 
results in no conclusion, the commission may, if requested by any party to the 
proceeding within 30 days from the date of the certification of the results of the 
election, conduct a runoff election.  In that runoff election, the commission shall 
drop from the ballot the name of the representative who received the least number 
of votes at the original election.  The commission shall drop from the ballot the 
privilege of voting against any representative if the least number of votes cast at the 
first election was against representation by any named representative.
SECTION  1869 .  111.84 (1) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.84 (1) (d)  To refuse to bargain collectively on matters set forth in s. 111.91 
(1), (1w), or (3), whichever is appropriate, with a representative of a majority of its 
employees in an appropriate collective bargaining unit.  Where the employer has a 
good faith doubt as to whether a labor organization claiming the support of a 
majority of its employees in appropriate collective bargaining unit does in fact have 
that support, it may file with the commission a petition requesting an election as to 
that claim.  It is not deemed to have refused to bargain until an election has been 
held and the results thereof certified to it by the commission.  A violation of this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1187 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1869
paragraph includes, but is not limited to, the refusal to execute a collective 
bargaining agreement previously orally agreed upon.
SECTION  1870 .  111.84 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.84 (1) (f)  To deduct labor organization dues from the earnings of a public 
safety employee or an employee who is in a collective bargaining unit containing a 
frontline worker, unless the employer has been presented with an individual order 
therefor, signed by the public safety employee personally, and terminable by at least 
the end of any year of its life or earlier by the public safety employee giving at least 
30 but not more than 120 days [ written notice of such termination to the employer 
and to the representative labor organization, except if there is a fair-share or 
maintenance of membership agreement in effect.  The employer shall give notice to 
the labor organization of receipt of such notice of termination.
SECTION  1871 .  111.84 (2) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.84 (2) (c)  To refuse to bargain collectively on matters set forth in s. 111.91 
(1), (1w), or (3), whichever is appropriate, with the duly authorized officer or agent 
of the employer which is the recognized or certified exclusive collective bargaining 
representative of employees specified in s. 111.81 (7) (a) or (ag) in an appropriate 
collective bargaining unit or with the certified exclusive collective bargaining 
representative of employees specified in s. 111.81 (7) (ar) to (f) in an appropriate 
collective bargaining unit.  Such refusal to bargain shall include, but not be limited 
to, the refusal to execute a collective bargaining agreement previously orally agreed 
upon.
SECTION  1872 .  111.85 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1188 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1872
111.85 (1) (a)  No fair-share or maintenance of membership agreement 
covering public safety employees under this subchapter may become effective unless 
authorized by a referendum.  The commission shall order a referendum whenever it 
receives a petition supported by proof that at least 30 percent of the public safety 
employees in a collective bargaining unit or at least 30 percent of the employees in a 
collective bargaining unit containing a frontline worker desire that a fair-share or 
maintenance of membership agreement be entered into between the employer and 
a labor organization.  A petition may specify that a referendum is requested on a 
maintenance of membership agreement only, in which case the ballot shall be 
limited to that question.
(b)  For a fair-share agreement to be authorized, at least two-thirds of the 
eligible public safety employees voting in a referendum shall vote in favor of the 
agreement or at least two-thirds of the employees in a collective bargaining unit 
containing a frontline worker shall vote in favor of the agreement.  For a 
maintenance of membership agreement to be authorized, at least a majority of the 
eligible public safety employees voting in a referendum shall vote in favor of the 
agreement or at least a majority of the employees in a collective bargaining unit 
containing a frontline worker shall vote in favor of the agreement.  In a referendum 
on a fair-share agreement, if less than two-thirds but more than one-half of the 
eligible public safety employees vote in favor of the agreement, a maintenance of 
membership agreement is authorized.
(c)  If a fair-share or maintenance of membership agreement is authorized in a 
referendum ordered under par. (a), the employer shall enter into such an agreement 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1189 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1872
with the labor organization named on the ballot in the referendum.  Each fair-share 
or maintenance of membership agreement shall contain a provision requiring the 
employer to deduct the amount of dues as certified by the labor organization from 
the earnings of the public safety employees affected by the agreement and to pay 
the amount so deducted to the labor organization.  Unless the parties agree to an 
earlier date, the agreement shall take effect 60 days after certification by the 
commission that the referendum vote authorized the agreement.  The employer 
shall be held harmless against any claims, demands, suits and other forms of 
liability made by public safety the employees affected by the agreement or by local 
labor organizations which may arise for actions taken by the employer in 
compliance with this section.  All such lawful claims, demands, suits, and other 
forms of liability are the responsibility of the labor organization entering into the 
agreement.
(d)  Under each fair-share or maintenance of membership agreement,  a public 
safety an employee affected by the agreement who has religious convictions against 
dues payments to a labor organization based on teachings or tenets of a church or 
religious body of which he or she is a member shall, on request to the labor 
organization, have his or her dues paid to a charity mutually agreed upon by the 
public safety employee and the labor organization.  Any dispute concerning this 
paragraph may be submitted to the commission for adjudication.
SECTION  1873 .  111.85 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.85 (2) (a)  Once authorized under sub. (1), a fair-share or maintenance of 
membership agreement covering public safety employees shall continue in effect, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1190 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1873
subject to the right of the employer or labor organization concerned to petition the 
commission to conduct a new referendum.  Such petition must be supported by 
proof that at least 30 percent of the public safety employees in the collective 
bargaining unit or at least 30 percent of the employees in a collective bargaining 
unit containing a frontline worker desire that the fair-share or maintenance of 
membership agreement be discontinued.  Upon so finding, the commission shall 
conduct a new referendum.  If the continuance of the fair-share or maintenance of 
membership agreement is approved in the referendum by at least the percentage of 
eligible voting public safety employees required for its initial authorization, it shall 
be continued in effect, subject to the right of the employer or labor organization to 
later initiate a further vote following the procedure prescribed in this subsection.  If 
the continuation of the agreement is not supported in any referendum, it is deemed 
terminated terminates at the termination of the collective bargaining agreement, 
or one year from the date of the certification of the result of the referendum, 
whichever is earlier.
(b)  The commission shall declare any fair-share or maintenance of 
membership agreement suspended upon such conditions and for such time as the 
commission decides whenever it finds that the labor organization involved has 
refused on the basis of race, color, sexual orientation or creed to receive as a member 
any public safety employee in the collective bargaining unit involved, and the 
agreement shall be made subject to the findings and orders of the commission.  Any 
of the parties to the agreement, or any public safety employee covered thereby, may 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1191 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1873
come before the commission, as provided in s. 111.07, and petition the commission 
to make such a finding.
SECTION  1874 .  111.85 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.85 (4)  The commission may, under rules adopted for that purpose, 
appoint as its agent an official of a state agency or authority whose public safety 
employees are entitled to vote in a referendum to conduct a referendum provided for 
herein under this section.
SECTION  1875 .  111.86 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.86 (2)  The division shall charge a state department or, agency, or 
authority the employer [s share of the cost related to grievance arbitration under 
sub. (1) for any arbitration that involves one or more employees of the state 
department or, agency, or authority.  Each state department or, agency, or authority 
so charged shall pay the amount that the division charges from the appropriation 
account or accounts used to pay the salary of the grievant.  Funds received under 
this subsection shall be credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.505 (1) 
(ks).
SECTION  1876 .  111.88 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.88 (1)  If a dispute has not been settled after a reasonable period of 
negotiation and after the settlement procedures, if any, established by the parties 
have been exhausted, the representative which has been certified by the 
commission after an election, or, in the case of a representative of employees 
specified in s. 111.81 (7) (a) or (ag), has been duly recognized by the employer, as the 
exclusive representative of employees in an appropriate collective bargaining unit, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1192 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1876
and the employer, its officers and agents, after a reasonable period of negotiation, 
are deadlocked with respect to any dispute between them arising in the collective 
bargaining process, the parties jointly, may petition the commission, in writing, to 
initiate fact-finding under this section, and to make recommendations to resolve 
the deadlock.
SECTION  1877 .  111.90 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.90 (1)  Carry out the statutory mandate and goals assigned to a state 
agency or authority by the most appropriate and efficient methods and means and 
utilize personnel in the most appropriate and efficient manner possible.
SECTION  1878 .  111.90 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.90 (2)  Manage the employees of a state agency or authority; hire, 
promote, transfer, assign or retain employees in positions within the agency or 
authority; and in that regard establish reasonable work rules.
SECTION  1879 .  111.91 (1w) of the statutes is created to read:
111.91 (1w)  (a)  Except as provided in pars. (b) and (c), with regard to a 
collective bargaining unit that contains at least one frontline worker, matters 
subject to collective bargaining to the point of impasse are wage rates, consistent 
with sub. (2), the assignment and reassignment of classifications to pay ranges, 
determination of an incumbent [s pay status resulting from position reallocation or 
reclassification, and pay adjustments upon temporary assignment of classified 
employees to duties of a higher classification or downward reallocations of a 
classified employee [s position; fringe benefits consistent with sub. (2); hours and 
conditions of employment.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1193 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1879
(b)  With regard to a collective bargaining unit that contains at least one 
frontline worker, the employer is not required to bargain on management rights 
under s. 111.90, except that procedures for the adjustment or settlement of 
grievances or disputes arising out of any type of disciplinary action referred to in s. 
111.90 (3) shall be a subject of bargaining.
(c)  The employer is prohibited from bargaining on matters contained in sub. 
(2) with a collective bargaining unit that contains at least one frontline worker.
SECTION  1880 .  111.91 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.91 (2) (intro.)  The employer is prohibited from bargaining with a 
collective bargaining unit under s. 111.825 (1) (g) or with a collective bargaining 
unit that contains a frontline worker with respect to all of the following:
SECTION  1881 .  111.91 (3) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.91 (3) (intro.)  The employer is prohibited from bargaining with a 
collective bargaining unit containing  a  only general employee employees with 
respect to any of the following:
SECTION  1882 .  111.91 (3q) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.91 (3q)  For purposes of determining compliance with sub. (3), the 
commission shall provide, upon request, to the employer or to any representative of 
a collective bargaining unit containing  a  only general employee employees, the 
consumer price index change during any 12-month period.  The commission may 
get the information from the department of revenue.
SECTION  1883 .  111.91 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.91 (4)  The administrator of the division, in connection with the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1194 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1883
development of tentative collective bargaining agreements to be submitted under s. 
111.92 (1) (a) 1., shall endeavor to obtain tentative agreements with each 
recognized or certified labor organization representing employees or supervisors of 
employees specified in s. 111.81 (7) (a) or (ag) and with each certified labor 
organization representing employees specified in s. 111.81 (7) (b) to (e) which do not 
contain any provision for the payment to any employee of a cumulative or 
noncumulative amount of compensation in recognition of or based on the period of 
time an employee has been employed by the state.
SECTION  1884 .  111.92 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.92 (3) (a)  Agreements covering a collective bargaining unit specified 
under s. 111.825 (1) (g) or a collective bargaining unit containing a frontline worker 
shall coincide with the fiscal year or biennium.
SECTION  1885 .  111.92 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.92 (3) (b)  No agreements covering a collective bargaining unit containing  
a  only general employee employees may be for a period that exceeds one year, and 
each agreement must coincide with the fiscal year.  Agreements covering a 
collective bargaining unit containing  a  only general employee employees may not 
be extended.
SECTION  1886 .  111.93 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.93 (3) (a)  If a collective bargaining agreement exists between the 
employer and a labor organization representing employees in a collective bargaining 
unit under s. 111.825 (1) (g) or in a collective bargaining unit containing a frontline 
worker, the provisions of that agreement shall supersede the provisions of civil 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1195 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1886
service and other applicable statutes, as well as rules and policies of the University 
of Wisconsin-Madison and the board of regents of the University of Wisconsin 
System, and policies or determinations of an authority, that are related to wages, 
fringe benefits, hours, and conditions of employment, whether or not the matters 
contained in those statutes, rules, and policies, and determinations are set forth in 
the collective bargaining agreement.
SECTION  1887 .  111.93 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
111.93 (3) (b)  If a collective bargaining agreement exists between the 
employer and a labor organization representing only general employees in a 
collective bargaining unit, the provisions of that agreement shall supersede the 
provisions of civil service and other applicable statutes, as well as rules and policies 
of the board of regents of the University of Wisconsin System, related to wages, 
whether or not the matters contained in those statutes, rules, and policies are set 
forth in the collective bargaining agreement.
SECTION  1888 .  114.09 (2) (bm) 1. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
114.09 (2) (bm) 1. (intro.)  Except as provided in subd. 1. a. or b., the court 
shall order the person violating sub. (1) (b) 1. or 1m. to submit to and comply with 
an assessment by an approved public treatment facility as defined in s. 51.45 (2) (c) 
for examination of the person [s use of alcohol, tetrahydrocannabinols, controlled 
substances, or controlled substance analogs and development of an airman safety 
plan for the person.  The court shall notify the person, the department, and the 
proper federal agency of the assessment order.  The assessment order shall:
SECTION  1889 .  114.09 (2) (bm) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1196 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1889
114.09 (2) (bm) 4.  The assessment report shall order compliance with an 
airman safety plan.  The report shall inform the person of the fee provisions under 
s. 46.03 (18) (f).  The safety plan may include a component that makes the person 
aware of the effect of his or her their offense on a victim and a victim [s family.  The 
safety plan may include treatment for the person [s misuse, abuse, or dependence on 
alcohol, tetrahydrocannabinols, controlled substances, or controlled substance 
analogs.  If the plan requires inpatient treatment, the treatment shall not exceed 30 
days.  An airman safety plan under this paragraph shall include a termination date 
consistent with the plan that shall not extend beyond one year.  The county 
department under s. 51.42 shall assure notification of the department of 
transportation and the person of the person [s compliance or noncompliance with 
assessment and treatment.
SECTION  1890 .  115.28 (7) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.28 (7) (a)  License all teachers for the public schools of the state; make 
rules establishing standards of attainment and procedures for the examination and 
licensing of teachers within the limits prescribed in ss. 118.19 (3), 118.191, 
118.1915, 118.192, 118.193, 118.194, 118.195, and 118.197, and 118.198; prescribe 
by rule standards, requirements, and procedures for the approval of teacher 
preparatory programs leading to licensure, including a requirement that, to be 
approved by the state superintendent, a teacher preparatory program shall 
demonstrate that it provides instruction that prepares teachers to teach reading 
and language arts using science-based early reading instruction, as defined in s. 
118.015 (1c) (b), and does not provide instruction on teaching reading and language 
arts that incorporates 3-cueing, as defined in s. 118.015 (1c) (c), and a requirement 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1197 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1890
that, beginning on July 1, 2012, and annually thereafter, each teacher preparatory 
program located in this state shall submit to the department a list of individuals 
who have completed the program and who have been recommended by the program 
for licensure under this subsection, together with each individual [s date of program 
completion, from each term or semester of the program [s most recently completed 
academic year; file in the state superintendent [s office all papers relating to state 
teachers [ licenses; and register each such license.
SECTION  1891 .  115.28 (7) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.28 (7) (b)  Subject to the same rules and laws concerning qualifications of 
applicants and granting and revocation of licenses or certificates under par. (a), the 
state superintendent shall grant certificates and licenses to teachers in private 
schools and tribal schools, except that teaching experience requirements for such 
certificates and licenses may be fulfilled by teaching experience in public, private, 
or tribal schools.  An applicant is not eligible for a license or certificate unless the 
state superintendent finds that the private school or tribal school in which the 
applicant taught offered an adequate educational program during the period of the 
applicant [s teaching therein.  Private Except as provided in ss. 115.7915 (2) (i), 
118.60 (2) (a) 6m., and 119.23 (2) (a) 6m., private schools are not obligated to employ 
only licensed or certified teachers.
SECTION  1892 .  115.28 (7) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
115.28 (7) (cm)  Consult with the department of workforce development to 
develop the teacher apprenticeship under s. 106.023 in a manner in which an 
individual who completes a teacher apprenticeship under s. 106.23 satisfies the 
requirements for a license to teach under s. 118.19 (6), (8), (9), and (12).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1198 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1893
SECTION  1893 .  115.28 (29) of the statutes is created to read:
115.28 (29)  COMPUTER  SCIENCE  EDUCATION  GRANTS .  Annually award grants 
to school boards to expand computer science educational opportunities in all grade 
levels operated by the school district.  For purposes of awarding grants under this 
subsection, expanding computer science educational opportunities includes 
providing professional development, the application of programming or coding 
concepts or integration of computer science fundamentals into other subjects, and 
purchasing curricula and related materials.  A school board may not use a grant 
under this subsection to purchase personal electronic computing devices, as defined 
in s. 115.438 (1) (b), computers, or computer hardware.
SECTION  1894 .  115.28 (30) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
115.28 (30) (e)  Annually, identify one career and technical student 
organization for each education subject listed in par. (b).
SECTION  1895 .  115.28 (30) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
115.28 (30) (f)  Annually, distribute to each career and technical student 
organization identified under par. (e) an amount determined as follows:
1.  Determine the total number of pupils who were members of the career and 
technical student organizations identified under par. (e) in the previous school year.
2.  For each career and technical student organization, divide the number of 
pupils who were members of that career and technical student organization in the 
previous school year by the total determined under subd. 1.
3.  Multiply the quotient under subd. 2. by the amount appropriated under s. 
20.255 (3) (ct) for the current fiscal year.
SECTION  1896 .  115.28 (63) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1199 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1896
115.28 (63)  MENTAL  HEALTH  TRAINING  PROGRAM .  (intro.)  Establish a mental 
health training support program under which the department provides training on 
all of the following evidence-based strategies related to addressing mental health 
issues in schools to school district staff and, instructional staff of charter schools 
under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x), and individuals employed by an out-of-school-time 
program on evidence-based strategies related to addressing mental health needs 
and suicide prevention in schools, including all of the following:
SECTION  1897 .  115.28 (67) of the statutes is created to read:
115.28 (67)  GENERAL  EDUCATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  TEST  FEE PAYMENTS .  (a)  
Subject to pars. (b) and (c), from the appropriation under s. 20.255 (1) (fd), pay to 
GED Testing Service LLC, or its successor, the testing service fee for an eligible 
individual who takes a content area test given under the general educational 
development test.  In this subsection, Xeligible individual Y means an individual who 
satisfies all of the following conditions before taking the content area test:
1.  The individual meets the eligibility requirements promulgated by the 
department by rule for a high school equivalency diploma or certificate of general 
educational development.
2.  The individual takes and receives a passing score on a practice test for the 
content area that is developed by GED Testing Service LLC, or its successor.
(b)  For each eligible individual under par. (a), pay for no more than one testing 
service fee for each content area test taken in a calendar year.
(c)  Pay the testing service fee for a content area test under par. (a) only if the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1200 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1897
eligible individual takes the test on or after January 1, 2026, at a testing site in this 
state that is approved by the state superintendent.
SECTION  1898 .  115.28 (68) of the statutes is created to read:
115.28 (68)  HEALTH  EMERGENCIES  IN LEARNING  PLACES ; GRANTS .  Annually, 
from the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (bp), award grants to school boards, 
operators of charter schools, and governing bodies of private schools participating 
in a program under s. 115.7915, 118.60, or 119.23 to comply with requirements 
under ss. 118.07 (1) (b) and (6), 118.075 (4) (a) and (b), 118.60 (7) (g) 1. and 2. and 
119.23 (7) (g) 1. and 2.  A grant under this subsection may be used for any of the 
following:
(a)  Automated external defibrillators.
(b)  Automated external defibrillator maintenance.
(c)  Cardiopulmonary resuscitation training supplies and materials.
(d)  Cardiopulmonary resuscitation training for school personnel, including 
coaches, school nurses, and athletic trainers.
(e)  First aid training and education materials.
(f)  Other activities that promote preparedness for using cardiac emergency 
response plans in a school or athletic facility.
(g)  Carbon monoxide detectors.
(h)  Opioid antagonists.
SECTION  1899 .  115.28 (69) of the statutes is created to read:
115.28 (69)  MENTOR  GREATER  MILWAUKEE .  From the appropriation under s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1201 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1899
20.255 (3) (fw), award grants to Mentor Greater Milwaukee, Inc., to expand access 
to quality youth mentoring in Milwaukee County.
SECTION  1900 .  115.28 (70) of the statutes is created to read:
115.28 (70)  G RADUATION  ALLIANCE .  Annually distribute the amounts 
appropriated under s. 20.255 (3) (fv) to Graduation Alliance, Inc., a Utah 
corporation, to support pupils and their families through a coaching program 
designed to improve school engagement and academic performance known as 
Engage Wisconsin.
SECTION  1901 .  115.28 (71) of the statutes is created to read:
115.28 (71)  T HE LITERACY  LAB.  Annually distribute the amounts 
appropriated under s. 20.255 (3) (fs) to The Literacy Lab, a Virginia nonstock 
corporation, to provide an evidence-based literacy intervention program in public 
schools located in the cities of Milwaukee and Racine.
SECTION  1902 .  115.28 (72) of the statutes is created to read:
115.28 (72)  F INANCIAL  LITERACY  CURRICULUM  GRANT  PROGRAM .  Award 
grants to school boards and charter schools established under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) 
for the purpose of developing, implementing, or improving financial literacy 
curricula.  In awarding grants under this subsection, the state superintendent shall 
prioritize grant applications related to innovative financial literacy curricula, as 
determined by the state superintendent.
SECTION  1903 .  115.335 of the statutes is created to read:
115.335   Water bottle filling stations; grants.  (1)   Beginning in the 2026-
27 school year, the department shall award grants to school districts and operators 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1202 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1903
of charter schools established under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) to modify water fountains 
to include water bottle filling equipment that includes a water filtration component.
(2)  The department may promulgate rules to implement and administer this 
section.
SECTION  1904 .  115.341 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.341 (1)  From the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (cm), the state 
superintendent shall reimburse each school board, each operator of a charter school 
under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x), each operator of a residential care center for children 
and youth, as defined in s. 115.76 (14g), the director of the program under s. 115.52, 
and the director of the center under s. 115.525 15 cents for each breakfast served at 
a school, as defined in 7 CFR 220.2, that meets the requirements of 7 CFR 220.8 and 
shall reimburse each governing body of a private school or tribal school 15 cents for 
each breakfast served at the private school or tribal school that meets the 
requirements of 7 CFR 220.8.
SECTION  1905 .  115.341 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.341  (2)  If the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (cm) in any fiscal year is 
insufficient to pay the full amount of aid under this section, the state 
superintendent shall prorate state aid payments among the school boards, 
operators, directors, and governing bodies of private schools and tribal schools 
entitled to the aid under sub. (1).
SECTION  1906 .  115.341 (3) of the statutes is created to read:
115.341 (3)  Notwithstanding sub. (1), the state superintendent may not 
reimburse the operator of a charter school under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x), the operator 
of a residential care center for children and youth, as defined in s. 115.76 (14g), the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1203 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1906
director of the program under s. 115.52, the director of the center under s. 115.525, 
or the governing body of a private or tribal school for any breakfast served at a 
school, as defined in 7 CFR 220.2, during the prior school year if the school ceased 
operations during that prior school year.
SECTION  1907 .  115.3415 of the statutes is created to read:
115.3415   Supplemental nutrition aid.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XEducational agency Y means a school board, an operator of a charter 
school under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x), a private school, a tribal school, an operator of a 
residential care center for children and youth, as defined in s. 115.76 (14g), the 
director of the program under s. 115.52, and the director of the center under s. 
115.525.
(b)  XEligible pupil Y means a pupil who satisfies the income eligibility criteria 
for a reduced-price lunch under 42 USC 1758 (b) (1).
(c)  XFederal school breakfast program Y means the program under 42 USC 
1773.
(d)  XFederal school lunch program Y means the program under 42 USC 1751 to 
1769j.
(e)  XFree-meal reimbursement amount Y means the reimbursement amount in 
the previous school year for a school meal provided to a pupil who satisfies the 
income eligibility for a free lunch under the federal school lunch program.
(f)  XIneligible pupil Y means a pupil who does not satisfy the income eligibility 
criteria for a free or reduced-price lunch under 42 USC 1758 (b) (1).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1204 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1907
(g)  XPaid-meal reimbursement amount Y means the reimbursement amount in 
the previous school year for a school meal provided to an ineligible pupil.
(h)  XReduced-price-meal reimbursement amount Y means the reimbursement 
amount in the previous school year for a school meal provided to an eligible pupil.
(i)  XReimbursement amount Y means the national average payment rate for a 
school meal, as announced by the food and nutrition service of the federal 
department of agriculture in the federal register.
(j)  XSchool meal Y means a lunch made available under the federal school 
lunch program, a meal supplement made available under the federal school lunch 
program, or a breakfast made available under the federal school breakfast program.
(2)  ELIGIBILITY .  An educational agency is eligible for payments under this 
section if the educational agency does not charge pupils for school meals for which 
the educational agency receives reimbursement under the federal school breakfast 
program or the federal school lunch program.
(3)  ANNUAL  PAYMENT .  From the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (ck), in the 
2026-27 school year and each school year thereafter, the state superintendent shall 
pay to each educational agency the sum of all of the following:
(a)  The total number of lunches provided by the educational agency to eligible 
pupils under the federal school lunch program in the previous school year 
multiplied by the difference between the reduced-price-meal reimbursement 
amount for a lunch and the free-meal reimbursement amount for a lunch.
(b)  The total number of lunches provided by the educational agency to 
ineligible pupils under the federal school lunch program in the previous school year 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1205 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1907
multiplied by the difference between the paid-meal reimbursement amount for a 
lunch and the free-meal reimbursement amount for a lunch.
(c)  The total number of breakfasts provided by the educational agency to 
eligible pupils under the federal school breakfast program in the previous school 
year multiplied by the difference between the reduced-price-meal reimbursement 
amount for a breakfast and the free-meal reimbursement amount for a breakfast.
(d)  The total number of breakfasts provided by the educational agency to 
ineligible pupils under the federal school breakfast program in the previous school 
year multiplied by the difference between the paid-meal reimbursement amount for 
a breakfast and the free-meal reimbursement amount for a breakfast.
(e)  The total number of meal supplements provided by the educational agency 
to eligible pupils under the federal school lunch program in the previous school year 
multiplied by the difference between the reduced-price-meal reimbursement 
amount for a meal supplement and the free-meal reimbursement amount for a meal 
supplement.
(f)  The total number of meal supplements provided by the educational agency 
to ineligible pupils under the federal school lunch program in the previous school 
year multiplied by the difference between the paid-meal reimbursement amount for 
a meal supplement and the free-meal reimbursement amount for a meal 
supplement.
SECTION  1908 .  115.35 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 115.35 (1) (a) (intro.) 
and amended to read:
115.35 (1) (a) (intro.)  A critical health problems education program is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1206 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1908
established in the department.  The program shall be a systematic and integrated 
program designed to provide appropriate learning experiences based on scientific 
knowledge of the human organism as it functions within its environment and 
designed to favorably influence the health, understanding, attitudes and practices 
of the individual child which will enable him or her to adapt to changing health 
problems of our society.  The program shall be designed to educate youth with 
regard to critical health problems and shall include, but not be limited to, the 
following topics as the basis for comprehensive education curricula in all 
elementary and secondary schools: controlled
1.  Controlled substances, as defined in s. 961.01 (4); controlled substance 
analogs, as defined in s. 961.01 (4m); alcohol; and tobacco; mental.
2.  Mental health; sexually.
3.  Sexually transmitted diseases, including acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome; human.
4.  Human growth and development; and.
5.  Other related health and safety topics as determined by the department.
(b)  Participation in the human growth and development topic of the curricula 
described in par. (a) shall be entirely voluntary.  The department may not require a 
school board to use a specific human growth and development curriculum.
SECTION  1909 .  115.351 of the statutes is created to read:
115.351   Aid for period products.   (1)  In this section:
(a)  XEconomically disadvantaged pupil Y has the meaning given in s. 115.43 
(1).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1207 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1909
(b)  XEligible local educational agency Y means a school district or charter 
school authorized under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) for which the percentage of 
economically disadvantaged pupils who were enrolled in the school district or 
attended the charter school in the previous school year is greater than the 
percentage of economically disadvantaged pupils who were enrolled in school 
districts and attended charter schools statewide in the previous school year.
(2)  Subject to sub. (3), the department shall distribute aid for the provision of 
period products in accordance with s. 118.40 (2r) (b) 2. m. or (2x) (b) 2. m. or 121.02 
(1) (im) to each eligible local educational agency in an amount equal to the greater 
of the following:
(a)  One hundred dollars.
(b)  An amount determined as follows:
1.  Divide the amount appropriated for the current fiscal year under s. 20.255 
(2) (dv) by the total number of economically disadvantaged pupils who were enrolled 
in or attended eligible local educational agencies statewide in the previous school 
year.
2.  Multiply the number of economically disadvantaged pupils who were 
enrolled in or attended the eligible local educational agency in the previous school 
year by the quotient determined under subd. 1.
(3)  If the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (dv) in the current fiscal year is 
insufficient to pay the full amount of aid under sub. (2), aid payments shall be 
prorated among the eligible local educational agencies.
SECTION  1910 .  115.3615 of the statutes is renumbered 49.39 and amended to 
read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1208 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1910
49.39   Head start supplement.   From the appropriation under s. 20.255 
20.437 (2) (eh), the state superintendent secretary shall distribute funds to 
agencies determined by the state superintendent secretary to be eligible for 
designation as head start agencies under 42 USC 9836 to provide comprehensive 
health, educational, nutritional, social, and other services to economically 
disadvantaged children and their families.  The state superintendent secretary 
shall distribute the funds in a manner consistent with 42 USC 9831 to 9852 except 
that there is no matching fund requirement.  The state superintendent secretary 
shall give preference in funding under this section to agencies that are receiving 
federal funds under 42 USC 9831 to 9852 and to agencies that operate full-time or 
early head start programs.  Funds distributed under this section may be used to 
match available federal funds under 42 USC 9831 to 9852 only if the funds are used 
to secure additional federal funds for the purposes under this section.
SECTION  1911 .  115.363 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.363 (2) (b)  The school board shall pay to each nonprofit corporation with 
which it contracts under par. (a) an amount that is no more than the amount paid 
per pupil under s. 118.40 (2r) (e) 2m., 2n., or 2p. 2q. in the current school year 
multiplied by the number of pupils participating in the program under the contract.
SECTION  1912 .  115.364 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.364   (title)  Aid for school mental health programs, pupil services 
professionals.
SECTION  1913 .  115.364 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is renumbered 115.364 (1) 
and amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1209 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1913
115.364 (1)  In this section:, Xpupil services professional Y means a school 
counselor, school social worker, school psychologist, or school nurse.
SECTION  1914 .  115.364 (1) (a), (am) and (b) of the statutes are repealed.
SECTION  1915 .  115.364 (2) (a) (intro.) and 1. of the statutes are consolidated, 
renumbered 115.364 (2) (a) and amended to read:
115.364 (2) (a)  Beginning in the 2018-19 2025-26 school year and annually 
thereafter, the state superintendent shall do all of the following:  1.  Subject, subject 
to par. (b), from the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (da), pay to an eligible 
reimburse a school district board, the operator of a charter school established under 
s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x), or the governing body of a private school participating in a 
program under s. 118.60 or 119.23 for an amount equal to 50 percent of the amount 
by which the school district increased its expenditures made by the school board, 
operator, or governing body in the preceding school year to employ, hire, or retain 
social workers over the amount it expended in the school year immediately 
preceding the preceding school year to employ, hire, or retain social workers pupil 
services professionals.
SECTION  1916 .  115.364 (2) (a) 2. and 3. of the statutes are repealed.
SECTION  1917 .  115.364 (2) (b) 1. of the statutes is renumbered 115.364 (2) (b) 
and amended to read:
115.364 (2) (b)  If the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (da) in any fiscal year 
is insufficient to pay the full amount of aid under par. (a), the state superintendent 
shall prorate state aid payments among the school districts, private schools, and 
independent charter schools boards, operators of charter schools established under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1210 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1917
s. 118.40 (2r) and (2x), and governing bodies of private schools participating in 
programs under ss. 118.60 and 119.23 that are eligible for the aid.
SECTION  1918 .  115.364 (2) (b) 2. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1919 .  115.366 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.366 (3)  AWARDS .  Beginning in the 2020-21 school year, from From the 
appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (du), the department shall award up to $1,000 
$6,000 for each school for which a grant is awarded under sub. (1).
SECTION  1920 .  115.367 of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
115.367   Aid for comprehensive school mental health services.   (1)  
Beginning in the 2025-26 school year and annually thereafter, the state 
superintendent shall, from the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (dt) and subject to 
sub. (3), reimburse a school board or the operator of a charter school established 
under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) for expenditures relating to mental health services 
provided during in-school or out-of-school time.  Mental health services eligible for 
reimbursement under this subsection include at least all of the following:
(a)  Mental health evidence-based improvement strategies.
(b)  Mental health literacy and stigma reduction programs for pupils and 
adults.
(c)  Collaborating or contracting with community mental health providers, 
consultants, organizations, cooperative educational service agencies, and other 
experts to provide consultation, training, mentoring, and coaching.
(d)  Parent training and informational events.
(e)  Assistance programs for pupils and families.
(f)  Mental health navigators.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1211 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1920
(g)  Mental health system planning.
(h)  Translator and interpreter services.
(i)  School-employed mental health professionals who are accessible to all 
pupils and for whom a reimbursement is not made under s. 115.364 (2) (a).
(j)  Setting up spaces and purchasing equipment suitable for mental health 
telehealth service delivery.
(k)  Projects designed to assist minors experiencing problems resulting from 
the use of alcohol or other drugs or to prevent alcohol or other drug use by minors.
(L)  Telehealth services, as defined in s. 440.01 (1) (hm).
(2)  The following costs are ineligible for reimbursement under sub. (1):
(a)  Payments for direct treatment services or insurance deductibles.
(b)  Training that is not related to pupil mental health.
(c)  Staff salaries for positions that are not related to pupil mental health.
(d)  Indirect costs of regular school operations.
(3) (a)  In each school year, the amount the state superintendent reimburses a 
school board or operator of an independent charter school under sub. (1) may not 
exceed the greater of the following:
1.  $100,000.
2.  $100 multiplied by the number of pupils enrolled in the school district or 
charter school in the previous school year.
(b)  If the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (dt) in any fiscal year is insufficient 
to pay the full amount of aid under sub. (1), the state superintendent shall prorate 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1212 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1920
state aid payments among the school boards and the operators of charter schools 
established under s. 118.40 (2r) and (2x) that are eligible for the aid.
SECTION  1921 .  115.39 (2) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 115.39 (2) (a) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
115.39 (2) (a) (intro.)  Contract with individuals who demonstrate knowledge 
and expertise in science-based early literacy instruction and instructional practices 
and have instructional experience in grades kindergarten to 12 to serve as literacy 
coaches.  The office may not contract for more than 64 the following number of full-
time equivalent positions under this paragraph.:
SECTION  1922 .  115.39 (2) (a) 1. of the statutes is created to read:
115.39 (2) (a) 1.  In the 2025-26 school year, 64.
SECTION  1923 .  115.39 (2) (a) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
115.39 (2) (a) 2.  In the 2026-27 and each school year thereafter, 100.
SECTION  1924 .  115.39 (3) (c) 1. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.39 (3) (c) 1. (intro.)  The total number of full-time equivalent literacy 
coaches assigned under pars. (a) and (b) in the 2025-26 school year to eligible 
schools located within the geographical boundaries of a school district may not 
exceed the following:
SECTION  1925 .  115.39 (3) (c) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
115.39 (3) (c) 1m.  Beginning in the 2026-27 school year, the total number of 
full-time equivalent literacy coaches assigned under pars. (a) and (b) to eligible 
schools located within the geographical boundaries of a school district may not 
exceed the following:
a.  For a 1st class city school district, 16.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1213 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1925
b.  For a school district other than a 1st class city school district, 6.
SECTION  1926 .  115.395 of the statutes is created to read:
115.395   Early literacy tutoring; grants.   (1)  In this section:
(a)  XHigh-dosage literacy tutoring Y means literacy tutoring that is all of the 
following:
1.  Provided to a pupil in a one-on-one setting or in a small group that does not 
include more than 4 pupils per tutor.
2.  Provided to a pupil at least 3 sessions, each of which is at least 30 minutes 
in duration, per week by the same tutor.
3.  Provided by tutors who are professionally trained and receive ongoing 
support and coaching. 
4.  Provided using high-quality instructional materials that align with 
classroom content.
5.  Held during school hours.
(b)  XLiteracy tutoring Y means tutoring that includes science-based early 
reading instruction and does not include 3-cueing.
(c)  XScience-based early reading instruction Y has the meaning given in s. 
118.015 (1c) (b).
(d)  XThree-cueing Y has the meaning given in s. 118.015 (1c) (c).
(2)  The department shall establish and implement a competitive grant 
program to award grants to community-based nonprofit organizations for the 
purpose of providing literacy tutoring, including high-dosage literacy tutoring, to 
pupils in 5-year-old kindergarten to grade 3 who have not yet demonstrated the 
ability to read at grade level.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1214 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1926
(3)  The department may promulgate rules to implement and administer this 
section.
SECTION  1927 .  115.407 of the statutes is created to read:
115.407   Grants to support local programming; career pathway to 
teaching.   (1) (a)  The department shall develop a competitive request-for-proposal 
process for the award of a grant to an entity for the purpose of subsidizing 
cocurricular opportunities provided to public school pupils in grades 6 to 12 that 
encourage pupils to pursue a career in teaching elementary and secondary grades.
(b)  The department shall accept applications from entities responding to the 
request-for-proposal under par. (a) and shall, from the appropriation under s. 
20.255 (1) (er), award a grant to an entity that satisfies the requirements under sub. 
(2).
(2)  To be eligible for a grant under this section, an entity shall demonstrate 
that it has successfully supported cocurricular opportunities in public schools in 
this state to encourage pupils to pursue a career in teaching elementary and 
secondary grades.
SECTION  1928 .  115.421 of the statutes is created to read:
115.421   Student teacher stipends.   From the appropriation account under 
s. 20.255 (3) (cj), beginning in the 2026-27 school year, the department shall provide 
payments, in the amount of $2,500 per individual per semester, to an individual 
who is completing student teaching as part of a teacher preparatory program 
approved by the state superintendent under s. 115.28 (7) (a).  Receipt of a payment 
under this section does not preclude an individual [s receipt of a payment under s. 
115.41.  The department may promulgate rules to implement this section.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1215 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1929
SECTION  1929 .  115.422 of the statutes is created to read:
115.422   Grow your own programs; teacher pipeline capacity 
building.   (1)  In this section, Xgrow your own program Y means a program to 
encourage individuals to pursue a career in teaching or to facilitate teacher 
licensure.  XGrow your own programs Y include high school clubs that encourage 
careers in teaching, payment of costs associated with current staff acquiring 
education needed for licensure, support for career pathways using dual enrollment, 
support for partnerships focused on attracting or developing new teachers, or 
incentives for paraprofessionals to gain licensure.
(2)  Beginning in the 2026-27 school year, from the appropriation under s. 
20.255 (2) (fj), the department shall award grants to a school district or the operator 
of a charter school under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) to reimburse the school district or 
charter school for costs associated with grow your own programs.
(3)  The department shall promulgate rules to implement and administer this 
section, including criteria for awarding a grant.
SECTION  1930 .  115.424 of the statutes is created to read:
115.424   Cooperating teacher stipends.   From the appropriation account 
under s. 20.255 (3) (ck), beginning in the 2026-27 school year, the department shall 
provide payments, in the amount of $1,000 per teacher per semester, to a 
cooperating teacher who is overseeing an individual who is completing student 
teaching.  The department may promulgate rules to implement this section.
SECTION  1931 .  115.433 of the statutes is created to read:
115.433   Aid for career and technical education.   (1)  In this section, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1216 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1931
Xhigh school career and technical education pathway Y means a series of career and 
technical education opportunities that prepare a pupil for a postsecondary option in 
a specific career area.
(2)  From the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (dk), the state superintendent 
shall provide payments to school boards and operators of a charter school 
established under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) for the purpose of increasing high school 
career and technical education pathways in public schools.  Aid payments under 
this subsection may be used for expenses related to creating career and technical 
education courses and high school career and technical education pathways and for 
expanding access to existing career and technical education courses and high school 
career and technical education pathways.  The department shall pay to a school 
board or operator of a charter school established under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) an 
amount calculated as follows:
(a)  Determine the total number of pupils in the high school grades enrolled in 
school districts and charter schools established under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) in the 
previous school year.
(b)  Determine the number of pupils in the high school grades enrolled in the 
school district or charter school established under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) in the 
previous school year.
(c)  Divide the amount determined under par. (b) by the amount determined 
under par. (a).
(d)  Multiply the quotient calculated under par. (c) by one of the following 
amounts, whichever is applicable:
1.  In the 2025-26 school year, $5,000,000.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1217 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1931
2.  In the 2026-27 school year, the unencumbered balance of the appropriation 
under s. 20.255 (2) (dk) at the close of the 2025-26 fiscal year.
3.  In the 2027-28 school year, and each school year thereafter, one-half of the 
amount appropriated under s. 20.255 (2) (dk) for the applicable fiscal biennium.
(3)  The department may promulgate rules to implement and administer this 
section.
SECTION  1932 .  115.436 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.436 (3) (a)  Beginning in the 2018-19 school year, from From the 
appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (ae) and subject to par. (b), the department shall 
pay to each school district eligible for sparsity aid under this paragraph $400 $500 
multiplied by the membership in the previous school year.
SECTION  1933 .  115.436 (3) (am) of the statutes is renumbered 115.436 (3) 
(am) 1. and amended to read:
115.436 (3) (am) 1.  Beginning in the 2017-18 school year, from From the 
appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (ae), the department shall, subject to par. (b), pay 
to each school district that received aid under this section par. (a) in the previous 
school year but does not satisfy the requirement under sub. (2) (a) or (2m) (a) is 
ineligible to receive aid under pars. (a) and (c) in the current school year 50 percent 
of the amount received by the school district under par. (a) in the previous school 
year.
SECTION  1934 .  115.436 (3) (am) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
115.436 (3) (am) 2.  From the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (ae), the 
department shall, subject to par. (b), pay to each school district that received aid 
under par. (c) in the previous school year but is ineligible to receive aid under pars. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1218 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1934
(a) and (c) in the current school year 50 percent of the amount received by the school 
district under par. (c) in the previous school year.
SECTION  1935 .  115.436 (3) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.436 (3) (c)  Beginning in the 2021-22 school year, from From the 
appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (ae) and subject to par. (b), the department shall 
pay to a school district that is eligible for sparsity aid under this paragraph $100 
$200 multiplied by the school district [s membership in the previous school year.
SECTION  1936 .  115.437 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 115.437 (1) (intro.) 
and amended to read:
115.437 (1) (intro.)  In this section, Xnumber:
(b)  XNumber of pupils enrolled Y has the meaning given in s. 121.90 (1) (intro.) 
and includes 40 percent of the summer enrollment.  XNumber of pupils enrolled Y 
does not include pupils described in the exception under s. 121.90 (1) (f) (g).
SECTION  1937 .  115.437 (1) (a) of the statutes is created to read:
115.437 (1) (a)  XEconomically disadvantaged pupil Y means a pupil who 
satisfies either the income eligibility criteria for a free or reduced-price lunch under 
42 USC 1758 (b) (1) or other measures of poverty, as determined by the department.
SECTION  1938 .  115.437 (1) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
115.437 (1) (c)  XRate of economically disadvantaged pupils Y means the 
number of economically disadvantaged pupils enrolled in a school district divided 
by the number of pupils enrolled in the school district.
SECTION  1939 .  115.437 (2) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 115.437 (2) (a) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
115.437 (2) (a) (intro.)  Except as provided in par. (b), annually Annually, on 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1219 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1939
the 4th Monday of March, the department shall pay to each school district an 
amount equal to the sum of all of the following:
1.  The average of the number of pupils enrolled in the school district in the 
current and 2 preceding school years multiplied by $75 in the 2013-14 school year, 
by $150 in the 2014-15 and 2015-16 school years, by $250 in the 2016-17 school year, 
by $450 in the 2017-18 school year, by $654 in the 2018-19 school year, by $679 and 
$63 in $800 in the 2025-26 school year and $850 in the 2026-27 school year and each 
school year thereafter.
(c)  The department shall make the payments under this subsection from the 
appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (aq).
SECTION  1940 .  115.437 (2) (a) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
115.437 (2) (a) 2.  In the 2025-26 school year and in each school year 
thereafter, the number of pupils enrolled in a school district multiplied by the 
school district [s rate of economically disadvantaged pupils in the previous school 
year multiplied by 20 percent of the per pupil amount under subd. 1. for the 
applicable school year.
SECTION  1941 .  115.437 (2) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1942 .  115.445 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.445   (title)  Four-year-old kindergarten; grants and model 
community-based approach 4k contract.
SECTION  1943 .  115.445 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 115.445 (1m).
SECTION  1944 .  115.445 (1c) of the statutes is created to read:
115.445 (1c)  In this section:
(a)  XCommunity-based approach contract Y means a written document that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1220 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1944
defines the roles and responsibilities of a school board and a community-based 
provider related to the operation of a 4-year-old kindergarten program.
(b)  XCommunity-based provider Y means a head start agency designated under 
42 USC 9836, a family child care center, as defined in s. 49.136 (1) (j), or a group 
child care center, as defined in s. 49.136 (1) (k).
SECTION  1945 .  115.445 (2m) of the statutes is created to read:
115.445 (2m)  (a)  By no later than January 1, 2026, and in consultation with 
the department of children and families, the department shall develop a model 
community-based approach contract.
(b)  In consultation with the department of children and families, the 
department shall, by rule, establish the standard per pupil payment amount a 
school board pays to a community-based provider under the model community-
based approach contract developed under par. (a).
SECTION  1946 .  115.448 of the statutes is created to read:
115.448   Early literacy; aid for intensive summer reading programs.   
(1) (a)  XEligible pupil Y means a pupil who was promoted to 4th grade who had a 
personal reading plan under s. 118.016 (5) (a) 1. during the 3rd grade and who was 
not considered to have completed the personal reading plan under s. 118.016 (5) (d) 
at the time the pupil was promoted to 4th grade.
(b)  XRequired intensive summer reading program Y means an intensive 
summer reading program that is required to be included in a promotion policy 
under s. 118.33 (6) (a) 3. or (b) 2m.
(2)  Beginning in the 2026-27 school year, from the appropriation under s. 
20.255 (1) (fc), the department shall in each school year reimburse school boards 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1221 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1946
and charter schools established under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) for the costs they 
incurred in the previous school year to provide required intensive summer reading 
programs to eligible pupils.  School boards and charter schools established under s. 
118.40 (2r) or (2x) shall report to the department their costs that are eligible for 
reimbursement under this subsection.
(3)  The department shall pay aid under this section by no later than 
November 15 of each school year.
(4)  The department may promulgate rules to implement and administer this 
section.
SECTION  1947 .  115.455 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.455   (title)  Grant Grants for information technology education.
SECTION  1948 .  115.455 (1) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 115.455 (1) (a) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
115.455 (1) (a) (intro.)  The department shall develop a competitive request-
for-proposal process for the grant program to award of a grant to an entity grants to 
one or more entities to provide information technology education and certification 
opportunities to public any of the following:
1.  Public school pupils in grades 6 to 12, technical. 
2.  Technical college district students, and patrons.
3.  Patrons of public libraries.
SECTION  1949 .  115.455 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.455 (1) (b)  The department shall accept applications from entities 
responding to the request-for-proposal that apply for grants under par. (a) and shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1222 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1949
may, from the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (eb), award a grant only to an entity 
entities that, subject to sub. (3), satisfies satisfy the requirements under sub. (2).
SECTION  1950 .  115.455 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.455 (2) (intro.)  To be eligible for a grant under this section, the an entity 
shall demonstrate that it has successfully offered an information technology 
instructional program in schools in this state and shall develop an instructional 
program that includes all at least one of the following components, and shall ensure 
maximize the number of sites at which that the instructional program will be 
operated in 225 sites, including 16 public libraries:
SECTION  1951 .  115.455 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.455 (3)  In awarding the grant grants under sub. (1), the department shall 
give preference to an entity that demonstrates that it has entities that demonstrate 
they have successfully provided high-quality information technology instructional 
programming and educational opportunities to pupils enrolled in or attending 
schools in this state and will develop an instructional program that includes 
multiple components under sub. (2) (a) to (h).
SECTION  1952 .  115.745 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.745 (1)  A school board, an operator of a charter school established under 
s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x), a cooperative educational service agency, or an agency 
determined by the state superintendent to be eligible for designation under 42 USC 
9836 as a head start agency, in conjunction with a tribal education authority, may 
apply to the department for a grant for the purpose of supporting innovative, 
effective instruction in one or more American Indian languages.
SECTION  1953 .  115.76 (12) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1223 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1953
115.76 (12) (a) 1.  A biological natural parent.
SECTION  1954 .  115.76 (12) (a) 2. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1955 .  115.76 (12) (a) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1956 .  115.76 (13) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.76 (13)  XPerson acting as a parent of a child Y means a relative of the child 
or a private individual allowed to act as a parent of a child by the child [s biological 
natural or adoptive parents or guardian, and includes the child [s grandparent, 
neighbor, friend or private individual caring for the child with the explicit or tacit 
approval of the child [s biological natural or adoptive parents or guardian.  XPerson 
acting as a parent of a child Y does not include any person that receives public funds 
to care for the child if such funds exceed the cost of such care.
SECTION  1957 .  115.77 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.77 (1)  In sub. (1m) (a) to (d), except as provided in s. 118.51 (12) (b), if a 
child with a disability is attending a public school in a nonresident school district 
under s. 118.50, 118.51, or 121.84 (1) (a) or (4), Xlocal educational agency Y means 
the school district that the child is attending.
SECTION  1958 .  115.79 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.79 (1) (b)  An educational placement is provided to implement a child [s 
individualized education program.  Except as provided in s. 118.51 (12) (b), if a child 
with a disability is attending a public school in a nonresident school district under 
s. 118.50, 118.51, or 121.84 (1) (a) or (4), the school board of the school district that 
the child is attending shall provide an educational placement for the child and shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1224 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1958
pay tuition charges instead of the school district in which the child resides if 
required by the placement.
SECTION  1959 .  115.7915 (1) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 115.7915 (1) 
(ah).
SECTION  1960 .  115.7915 (1) (ad) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (1) (ad)  XAccrediting entity Y has the meaning given in s. 118.60 (1) 
(ab).
SECTION  1961 .  115.7915 (1) (am) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (1) (am)  XProgram cap Y means the total number of children who 
attended eligible schools under the scholarship program under this section in the 
2025-26 school year.
SECTION  1962 .  115.7915 (1) (ap) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (1) (ap)  XPreaccreditation Y has the meaning given in s. 118.60 (1) (c).
SECTION  1963 .  115.7915 (1) (at) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (1) (at)  XPreaccrediting entity Y has the meaning given in s. 118.60 
(1) (cm).
SECTION  1964 .  115.7915 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (2)  SCHOLARSHIP  REQUIREMENTS .  (intro.)  Beginning in the 2016-17 
school year, the department shall, subject to sub. (2m), provide to a child with a 
disability a scholarship under sub. (4m) (a) to attend an eligible school if all of the 
following apply:
SECTION  1965 .  115.7915 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (2) (b)  The governing body of the eligible school notified the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1225 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1965
department of its intent to participate in the program under this section, as 
provided under sub. (3) (a).
SECTION  1966 .  115.7915 (2) (c) (intro.) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (2) (c) (intro.)  Any of the following applies to the eligible school:
SECTION  1967 .  115.7915 (2) (c) of the statutes is renumbered 115.7915 (2) (c) 
3. a. and amended to read:
115.7915 (2) (c) 3. a.  The For the 2025-26 school year, the eligible school has 
been either is approved as a private school by the state superintendent under s. 
118.165 (2) or is accredited by Cognia, Inc., Wisconsin Religious and Independent 
Schools Accreditation, the Independent Schools Association of the Central States, 
Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod School Accreditation, Wisconsin 
Association of Christian Schools, National Lutheran School Accreditation, 
Christian Schools International, Association of Christian Schools International, 
the diocese or archdiocese within which the eligible school is located, or any other 
organization recognized by the National Council for Private School Accreditation, as 
of the an accrediting entity on August 1 preceding the school term for which the 
scholarship is awarded, 2025.
SECTION  1968 .  115.7915 (2) (c) 1. of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (2) (c) 1.  The eligible school participates in a parental choice 
program under s. 118.60 or 119.23 for the school year for which the scholarship is 
awarded.
SECTION  1969 .  115.7915 (2) (c) 2. of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1226 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1969
115.7915 (2) (c) 2.  The eligible school is accredited by an accrediting entity by 
August 1 of the school year for which the scholarship is awarded.
SECTION  1970 .  115.7915 (2) (c) 3. (intro.) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (2) (c) 3. (intro.)  If the eligible school participates in the program 
under this section in the 2025-26 school year, all of the following apply to the 
eligible school:
SECTION  1971 .  115.7915 (2) (c) 3. b., c. and d. of the statutes are created to 
read:
115.7915 (2) (c) 3. b.  If the eligible school is not accredited as provided under 
subd. 3. a., the eligible school obtains preaccreditation by a preaccrediting entity by 
August 1, 2026.  The eligible school may apply for and seek to obtain 
preaccreditation from only one preaccrediting entity.  If the eligible school fails to 
obtain preaccreditation as required under this subd. 3. b., the eligible school may 
not participate in the program under this section in the 2026-27 school year or in 
any school year thereafter until the eligible school obtains accreditation as provided 
under subd. 2.
c.  If subd. 3. b. applies to the eligible school, the eligible school applies for 
accreditation by an accrediting entity by December 31, 2026, and obtains 
accreditation by an accrediting entity by December 31, 2029.
d.  This subd. 3. does not apply after the 2029-30 school year.
SECTION  1972 .  115.7915 (2) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (2) (f)  The child [s parent or guardian on behalf of the child, or, for a 
child with a disability who has reached the age of 18 and has not been adjudicated 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1227 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1972
incompetent, the child, submitted an application for a scholarship under this 
section, as provided under sub. (3) (am), and on a form prepared by the department 
that includes the document developed by the department under sub. (4) to the 
eligible school that the child will attend.   A child [s parent or guardian or a child 
with a disability who has reached the age of 18 may apply for a scholarship at any 
time during a school year and, subject to sub. (3) (b), a child may begin attending an 
eligible school under this section at any time during the school year.
SECTION  1973 .  115.7915 (2) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (2) (g)  The Subject to sub. (3) (d), the eligible school, or the 
department on behalf of the eligible school, has accepted the child [s application to 
attend the eligible school under a scholarship awarded under this section.
SECTION  1974 .  115.7915 (2) (i) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (2) (i) 1.  Except as provided in subd. 2., beginning on July 1, 2028, 
all of the eligible school [s teachers have a teaching license or permit issued by the 
department.
2. a.  A teacher employed by the eligible school on July 1, 2028, who has been 
teaching for at least the 5 consecutive years immediately preceding July 1, 2028, 
and who does not satisfy the requirements under subd. 1. on July 1, 2028, may 
apply to the department on a form prepared by the department for a temporary, 
nonrenewable waiver from the requirements under subd. 1.  The department shall 
promulgate rules to implement this subd. 2. a., including the form of the application 
and the process by which the waiver application will be reviewed.  The application 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1228 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1974
form shall require the applicant to submit a plan for satisfying the requirements 
under subd. 1.  No waiver granted under this subd. 2. a. is valid after July 1, 2033.
b.  A teacher employed by the eligible school who teaches only courses in 
rabbinical studies is not required to hold a license or permit to teach issued by the 
department.
SECTION  1975 .  115.7915 (2m) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (2m)   PROGRAM  CAP.  Beginning with the 2026-27 school year, the 
total number of children who may attend eligible schools under the scholarship 
program under this section during a school year may not exceed the program cap.
SECTION  1976 .  115.7915 (3) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (3) (title)  P ARTICIPATING  SCHOOLS ; SELECTION  OF PUPILS  
APPLICATION  PROCESS ; WAITING  LIST.
SECTION  1977 .  115.7915 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (3) (a)  The governing body of an eligible school that intends to 
participate in the program under this section shall notify the department of its 
intent by January 10 of the previous school year.  The governing body of the eligible 
school shall include in the notice under this paragraph the number of spaces the 
eligible school has available for children receiving a scholarship under this section.
SECTION  1978 .  115.7915 (3) (am) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (3) (am)  The governing body of an eligible school that has submitted 
a notice of intent to participate under par. (a) may accept applications for 
scholarships under sub. (2) (f) for the following school year between the first 
weekday in February and the 3rd Thursday in April.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1229 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1979
SECTION  1979 .  115.7915 (3) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1980 .  115.7915 (3) (bm) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (3) (bm)  Upon receipt of an application for a scholarship under sub. 
(2) (f) par. (am), the governing body of the eligible school shall determine whether 
the application satisfies the requirements under sub. (2), other than the 
requirement under sub. (2) (d), and shall request verification from the local 
education agency that developed the child [s individualized education program or 
services plan that the child has an individualized education program or services 
plan in place that meets the requirement in sub. (2) (d).  The governing body of the 
eligible school shall also notify the child [s resident school board that, pending 
verification that the requirements of sub. (2) have been satisfied and subject to par. 
(d), the child will be awarded a scholarship under this section.  The local education 
agency shall, within 5 business days of receiving a request under this paragraph, 
provide the governing body of the eligible school with a copy of the child [s 
individualized education program or services plan.
SECTION  1981 .  115.7915 (3) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (3) (c)  The By the first weekday in May immediately following the 
application period under par. (am), the governing body of  a private an eligible 
school participating in the program under this section that received applications for 
scholarships under par. (am) shall notify report to the department when it verifies 
that a child has the names of children who applied under par. (am) to attend the 
eligible school for whom the governing body has verified that an individualized 
education program or services plan is in effect and accepts the child [s application to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1230 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1981
attend the private school under a scholarship awarded under this section the names 
of those applicants who have siblings who are already attending the eligible school.
SECTION  1982 .  115.7915 (3) (d) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (3) (d)  After the end of the application period described under par. 
(am), upon receipt of the information under par. (c), the department shall determine 
the sum of all applicants for scholarships under this section.  In determining the 
sum, the department shall count a child who has applied for more than one 
scholarship under this section only once.  If the sum of all applicants exceeds the 
program cap, the department shall determine which applications to accept on a 
random basis, subject to the number of available spaces each eligible school 
specified in its notice under par. (a), except that the department shall give 
preference to the following in accepting applications for each eligible school, in the 
order of preference listed:
1.  Children who attended a different eligible school under a scholarship under 
this section during the previous school year.
2.  Siblings of pupils who are already attending the eligible school.
SECTION  1983 .  115.7915 (3) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (3) (e)  No later than 60 days after the end of the application period 
described under par. (am), the department shall notify each applicant and each 
eligible school, in writing, whether the application submitted to the eligible school 
has been accepted.
SECTION  1984 .  115.7915 (3) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (3) (f)  If the sum under par. (d) exceeds the program cap, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1231 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1984
department shall establish a waiting list in accordance with the preferences 
required under par. (d).
SECTION  1985 .  115.7915 (3) (g) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (3) (g)  The governing body of an eligible school that has accepted a 
child under par. (d) shall notify the department whenever the governing body 
determines that the child will not attend the eligible school under a scholarship 
under this section.  If, upon receiving notice under this paragraph, the department 
determines that the number of children attending eligible schools under 
scholarships under this section falls below the program cap, the department shall 
fill any available slot with a child selected from the waiting list established under 
par. (f), if such a waiting list exists.
SECTION  1986 .  115.7915 (4c) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1987 .  115.7915 (4m) (a) 2. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (4m)  (a) 2. a.  In the 2017-18 school year, the 2025-26 school year, 
and each school year thereafter, the sum of the scholarship amount under this 
paragraph for the previous school year; the amount of the per pupil revenue limit 
adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if positive; and the 
change in the amount of statewide categorical aid per pupil between the previous 
school year and the current school year, as determined under s. 118.40 (2r) (e) 2p., if 
positive.
SECTION  1988 .  115.7915 (4m) (a) 2. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (4m)  (a) 2. b.  Beginning in the 2018-19 school year and subject to 
subd. 3. ending in the 2024-25 school year, the sum of the scholarship amount under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1232 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1988
this subdivision for the previous school year; the amount of the per pupil revenue 
limit adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if positive; the 
change in the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), between the previous 
school year and current school year, if positive; the change in the amount of 
statewide categorical aid per pupil between the previous school year and the 
current school year, as determined under s. 118.40 (2r) (e) 2p., if positive; and in the 
2023-24 school year, 14.5 percent of the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), 
for that school year, or the amount under s. 115.7915 (4m) (a) 3., 2023 stats., if 
applicable.
SECTION  1989 .  115.7915 (4m) (a) 2. c. of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (4m)  (a) 2. c.  Beginning in the 2025-26 school year, the sum of the 
scholarship amount under this subdivision for the previous school year; the amount 
of the per pupil revenue limit adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current 
school year, if positive; and the change in the per pupil amount under s. 115.437 (2) 
(a) 1.between the previous school year and the current school year, if positive.
SECTION  1990 .  115.7915 (4m) (a) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1991 .  115.7915 (4m) (cm) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1992 .  115.7915 (4m) (f) 1. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (4m)  (f) 1. a.  Determine the sum of the amount paid for each child 
number of children residing in the school district for whom a payment is made 
under par. (a) in that school year.
SECTION  1993 .  115.7915 (4m) (f) 1. bm. of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (4m)  (f) 1. bm.  Multiply the number of children under subd. 1. a. by 
the per pupil amount calculated under par. (a) for that school year.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1233 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1994
SECTION  1994 .  115.7915 (4m) (f) 1. e. of the statutes is amended to read:
115.7915 (4m)  (f) 1. e.  Sum the amounts calculated under subd. 1. a., bm., d., 
and dh.
SECTION  1995 .  115.7915 (6) (L) of the statutes is created to read:
115.7915 (6) (L)  Allow a child attending the private school under this section 
to refrain from participating in any religious activity if the child [s parent submits to 
the child [s teacher or the private school [s principal a written request that the child 
be exempt from such activities.
SECTION  1996 .  115.881 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.881 (2)  For In the 2025-26 school year and each school year thereafter, for 
each child whose costs exceeded $30,000 under sub. (1), the department shall, from 
the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (bd), pay an eligible applicant in the current 
school year 40 percent of an amount equal to 0.90 multiplied by that portion of the 
cost under sub. (1) that exceeded $30,000.
SECTION  1997 .  115.881 (3) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  1998 .  115.882 of the statutes is amended to read:
115.882   Payment of state aid; reimbursement rate.   Funds appropriated 
under s. 20.255 (2) (b) shall be used first for the purpose of s. 115.88 (4).  Costs In 
the 2025-26 school year and in each school year thereafter, costs eligible for 
reimbursement from the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (b) under ss. 115.88 (1m) 
to (3), (6), and (8), 115.93, and 118.255 (4) shall be reimbursed at  a rate set to 
distribute the full amount appropriated for reimbursement for the costs, not to 
exceed 100 percent 60 percent of eligible costs.
SECTION  1999 .  115.887 of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1234 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  1999
115.887   Early childhood special education; coaches.   (1)  In this section, 
Xchild find Y means the process of identifying, locating, and evaluating children with 
disabilities who may need special education or related services.
(2)  The department shall contract with cooperative educational service 
agencies to employ regional child care collaboration coaches to promote child find to 
child care providers and provide training, technical assistance, and consultation to, 
and facilitate collaboration between, child care providers, operators of charter 
schools authorized under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x), and school boards for the purpose of 
providing special education and related services to children with disabilities.
SECTION  2000 .  115.993 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.993   (title)  Report Reports on bilingual-bicultural education and 
pupil counts.
SECTION  2001 .  115.993 of the statutes is renumbered 115.993 (1).
SECTION  2002 .  115.993 (2) of the statutes is created to read:
115.993 (2)  Annually, on or before August 15, a school board and the operator 
of a charter school established under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) shall report to the state 
superintendent the number of limited-English proficient pupils enrolled in the 
school district or attending the charter school in the previous school year and the 
classification of those pupils by language group.
SECTION  2003 .  115.995 (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.995   State aids.   (intro.)  Upon receipt of the report under s. 115.993 (1), 
if the state superintendent is satisfied that the bilingual-bicultural education 
program for the previous school year was maintained in accordance with this 
subchapter, the state superintendent shall do all of the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1235 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2004
SECTION  2004 .  115.995 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
115.995 (1)  From the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (cc), divide 
proportionally, based upon costs reported under s. 115.993 (1), an annual payment 
of $250,000 among school districts whose enrollments in the previous school year 
were at least 15 percent limited-English proficient pupils.  Aid paid under this 
subsection does not reduce aid paid under sub. (2).
SECTION  2005 .  115.9955 of the statutes is created to read:
115.9955   Aid for English language acquisition.   (1)  Beginning in the 
2025-26 school year and annually thereafter, from the appropriation under s. 
20.255 (2) (ce), the department shall pay each school district and each operator of a 
charter school established under s. 118.40 (2r) and (2x) $500 per limited-English 
proficient pupil enrolled in the school district or attending the charter school in the 
previous school year, based on the report under s. 115.993 (2).
(2)  Receipt of aid under s. 115.995 does not preclude receipt of aid under this 
section.
SECTION  2006 .  118.07 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 118.07 (1) (a) and 
amended to read:
118.07 (1) (a)  Every school board, every operator of a charter school, and the 
governing body of every private school shall provide a standard first aid kit for use 
in cases of emergency.
SECTION  2007 .  118.07 (1) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
118.07 (1) (b)  Beginning in the 2025-26 school year, each school board, 
operator of a charter school, and governing body of a private school participating in 
a program under s. 115.7915, 118.60, or 119.23 shall ensure that each public school, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1236 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2007
charter school, and private school has on site an adequate, usable supply of an 
opioid antagonist, as defined in s. 450.01 (13v).  A supply of an opioid antagonist 
provided under this paragraph shall be in a location that is easily accessible at all 
times.
SECTION  2008 .  118.07 (6) of the statutes is created to read:
118.07 (6) (a)  In this subsection, Xcardiac emergency response plan Y means a 
written document that establishes specific steps to reduce death from cardiac arrest 
in a specific setting.
(b)  Beginning in the 2025-26 school year, each school board, operator of a 
charter school, and governing body of a private school participating in a program 
under s. 115.7915, 118.60, or 119.23 shall have in effect a cardiac emergency 
response plan for cardiac emergencies that occur on school property and a cardiac 
emergency response plan for cardiac emergencies that occur at a school-sponsored 
athletic practice or event.  The school board, operator of a charter school, or 
governing body of a private school shall include in each cardiac emergency response 
plan at least all of the following:
1.  A cardiac emergency response team.
2.  Information on how the cardiac emergency response team is activated in 
response to a sudden cardiac arrest.
3.  Requirements for automated external defibrillator placement, including 
that each automated external defibrillator is retrievable within 3 minutes and that 
the placement complies with American Heart Association guidelines, and routine 
maintenance.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1237 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2008
4.  Information on how the cardiac emergency response plan is shared at the 
school and within the school community.
5.  Requirements for ongoing training in first aid, cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation, and automated external defibrillator use for certain school personnel, 
including coaches, school nurses, and athletic trainers, and a requirement that at 
least 3 individuals participate in the training under this subdivision.
6.  A requirement to practice the cardiac emergency response plan using drills.
7.  Information on cooperating with local emergency medical services.
8.  A requirement to review and evaluate the cardiac emergency response plan 
at least annually and after each time the cardiac emergency response plan is 
activated in response to a cardiac emergency.
SECTION  2009 .  118.075 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.075 (3)  I NDOOR  ENVIRONMENTAL  QUALITY  IN SCHOOLS  MODEL  
MANAGEMENT  PLAN .  By the first day of the 12th month beginning after the month 
in which the task force submits its report under sub. (2) (f), the department shall 
establish a model management plan and practices for maintaining indoor 
environmental quality in public and private schools.  In developing the plan and 
practices, the department shall consider the recommendations of the task force.  By 
July 1, 2026, the department shall include in the model management plan and 
practices for maintaining indoor environmental quality a requirement that public 
and private schools shall install and maintain a carbon monoxide detector, as 
defined in s. 101.149 (1) (am), in each room of a school that contains a fuel-burning, 
forced-air furnace or a boiler, or as otherwise required by the department of safety 
and professional services or a person certified under s. 101.12 (4) or 101.14 (4r).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1238 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2010
SECTION  2010 .  118.075 (4) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.075 (4) (title)  S CHOOL  DISTRICT  PUBLIC  SCHOOL  PLANS .
SECTION  2011 .  118.075 (4) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 118.075 (4) (a) 1. 
and amended to read:
118.075 (4) (a) 1.  By the first day of the 3rd month beginning after the month 
in which the department establishes the model management plan and practices 
under sub. (3), each school board shall provide for the development of a plan for 
maintaining indoor environmental quality in its schools.  Beginning on October 1, 
2026, each school board shall include in the school board [s plan under this 
subdivision a requirement to provide and maintain a carbon monoxide detector, as 
defined in s. 101.149 (1) (am), in each room of a school that contains a fuel-burning, 
forced-air furnace or a boiler, and as otherwise required by the department of safety 
and professional services or a person certified under s. 101.12 (4) or 101.14 (4r).
SECTION  2012 .  118.075 (4) (a) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
118.075 (4) (a) 2.  Beginning on October 1, 2026, each operator of a charter 
school authorized under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) shall provide for the development of a 
plan for maintaining indoor environmental quality in its charter school.  An 
operator of a charter school authorized under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) shall include in 
the plan under this subdivision a requirement to provide and maintain a carbon 
monoxide detector, as defined in s. 101.149 (1) (am), in each room of the charter 
school that contains a fuel-burning, forced-air furnace or a boiler, and as otherwise 
required by the department of safety and professional services or a person certified 
under s. 101.12 (4) or 101.14 (4r).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1239 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2013
SECTION  2013 .  118.075 (4) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 118.075 (4) (b) 1. 
and amended to read:
118.075 (4) (b) 1.  By the first day of the 12th month beginning after the month 
in which the department establishes the model management plan and practices 
under sub. (3), each school board shall implement a plan for maintaining indoor 
environmental quality in its schools. By July 1, 2027, each school board shall 
provide a carbon monoxide detector, as defined in s. 101.149 (1) (am), in each room 
of a school that contains a fuel-burning, forced-air furnace or a boiler, and as 
otherwise required by the department of safety and professional services or a 
person certified under s. 101.12 (4) or 101.14 (4r) and reasonably maintain every 
carbon monoxide detector in its schools in the manner specified in the instructions 
for the carbon monoxide detector.
SECTION  2014 .  118.075 (4) (b) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
118.075 (4) (b) 2.  By July 1, 2027, each operator of a charter school authorized 
under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) shall provide a carbon monoxide detector, as defined in 
s. 101.149 (1) (am), in each room of the charter school that contains a fuel-burning, 
forced-air furnace or a boiler, and as otherwise required by the department of safety 
and professional services or a person certified under s. 101.12 (4) or 101.14 (4r) and 
reasonably maintain every carbon monoxide detector in the charter school in the 
manner specified in the instructions for the carbon monoxide detector.
SECTION  2015 .  118.075 (4) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.075 (4) (c)  Each school board and operator of a charter school authorized 
under s. 118.40 (2r) or (2x) shall provide a copy of the plan implemented under par. 
(b) to any person upon request.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1240 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2016
SECTION  2016 .  118.134 (6) of the statutes is created to read:
118.134 (6)  Regardless of whether or not an objection is made under sub. (1) 
or an order is issued under sub. (3), if a school board adopts a resolution to 
terminate the use of a race-based nickname, logo, mascot, or team name that is 
associated with a federally recognized American Indian tribe or American Indians, 
in general, the state superintendent may award a grant to the school board for the 
costs associated with adopting and implementing a nickname, logo, mascot, or team 
name that is not race-based.  The state superintendent may not award a grant 
under this subsection in an amount that exceeds the greater of $50,000 or a school 
board[s actual costs to adopt and implement a nickname, logo, mascot, or team 
name.  The state superintendent shall pay the awards under this subsection from 
the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (kg).
SECTION  2017 .  118.15 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.15 (3) (a)  Any child who is excused by the school board because the child 
is temporarily not in proper physical or mental condition to attend a school program 
but who can be expected to return to a school program upon termination or 
abatement of the illness or condition.  The school attendance officer may request 
the parent or guardian of the child to obtain a written statement from a licensed 
physician, naturopathic doctor, dentist, chiropractor, optometrist, psychologist, 
physician assistant, or nurse practitioner, as defined in s. 255.06 (1) (d), or certified 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, or registered nurse described under 
s. 255.06 (1) (f) 1. or Christian Science practitioner living and residing in this state, 
who is listed in the Christian Science Journal, as sufficient proof of the physical or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1241 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2017
mental condition of the child.  An excuse under this paragraph shall be in writing 
and shall state the time period for which it is valid, not to exceed 30 days.
SECTION  2018 .  118.163 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.163 (4)  A person who is under 17 years of age a minor on the date of 
disposition is subject to s. 938.342.
SECTION  2019 .  118.19 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.19 (1)  Except as provided in subs. (1b) and (1c) and s. 118.40 (8) (b) 1. and 
2., any person seeking to teach in a public school, including a charter school, or in a 
school or institution operated by a county or the state, in a private school 
participating in a parental choice program under s. 118.60 or 119.23, or in a private 
school participating in the program under s. 115.7915 shall first procure a license 
or permit from the department.
SECTION  2020 .  118.19 (1b) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.19 (1b)  An individual may teach an online course in a subject and level in 
a public school, including a charter school, in a private school participating in a 
parental choice program under s. 118.60 or 119.23, or in a private school 
participating in the program under s. 115.7915 without a license or permit from the 
department if the individual holds a valid license or permit to teach the subject and 
level in the state from which the online course is provided.
SECTION  2021 .  118.19 (1c) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.19 (1c) (b) (intro.)  A faculty member of an institution of higher education 
may teach in a public high school, including a charter school that operates only high 
school grades, in a private school participating in a parental choice program under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1242 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2021
s. 118.60 or 119.23 that operates only high school grades, or in a private school 
participating in the program under s. 115.7915 that operates only high school 
grades without a license or permit from the department if the faculty member 
satisfies all of the following:
SECTION  2022 .  118.19 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.19 (3) (a)  No license to teach in any public school may be issued unless the 
applicant possesses a bachelor [s degree including such professional training as the 
department by rule requires, except as permitted under par. (b) and ss. 115.28 (17) 
(a), 118.191, 118.1915, 118.192, 118.193, 118.194, and 118.197, and 118.198.  
Notwithstanding s. 36.11 (16), no teacher preparatory program in this state may be 
approved by the state superintendent under s. 115.28 (7) (a), unless each student in 
the program is required to complete student teaching consisting of full days for a 
full semester following the daily schedule and semester calendar of the cooperating 
school or the equivalent, as determined by the state superintendent.  No license to 
teach in any public school may be granted to an applicant who completed a 
professional training program outside this state unless the applicant completed 
student teaching consisting of full days for a full semester following the daily 
schedule and semester calendar of the cooperating school or the equivalent, as 
determined by the state superintendent.  The state superintendent may grant 
exceptions to the student teaching requirements under this paragraph when the 
midyear calendars of the institution offering the teacher preparatory program and 
the cooperating school differ from each other and would prevent students from 
attending classes at the institution in accordance with the institution [s calendar.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1243 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2022
The state superintendent shall promulgate rules to implement this subsection.  If 
for the purpose of granting a license to teach or for approving a teacher preparatory 
program the state superintendent requires that an institution of higher education 
be accredited, the state superintendent shall accept accreditation by a regional or 
national institutional accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. department of 
education or by a programmatic accrediting organization.
SECTION  2023 .  118.19 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.19 (3) (b)  The state superintendent shall permanently certify any 
applicant to teach Wisconsin native American languages and culture who has 
successfully completed the university of Wisconsin-Milwaukee school of education 
approved Wisconsin native American languages and culture project certification 
program at any time between January 1, 1974, and December 31, 1977.  School 
districts shall A school district, the governing body of a private school participating 
in a parental choice program under s. 118.60 or 119.23, or the governing body of a 
private school participating in the program under s. 115.7915 may not assign 
individuals certified under this paragraph to teach courses other than Wisconsin 
native American languages and culture, unless they qualify under par. (a).
SECTION  2024 .  118.19 (10) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.19 (10) (b) 1.  Conduct a background investigation of each applicant for 
issuance or renewal of a license or permit, including a license or permit issued to a 
pupil services professional, and for a faculty member seeking to teach in a public 
high school without a license or permit.
SECTION  2025 .  118.191 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1244 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2025
118.191 (2) (a)  Notwithstanding s. 118.19 (7) to (9), the department shall 
grant an initial teaching license to teach a technical education subject to an 
individual who is eligible for licensure under s. 118.19 (4) and (10), who scores at 
least 100 points on the point system under sub. (5), of which at least 25 points are 
from sub. (5) (a) 1. and at least 25 points are from sub. (5) (a) 2., and who agrees to 
complete during the term of the license a curriculum determined by the school 
board of the school district, by the governing body of the private school participating 
in a parental choice program under s. 118.60 or 119.23, or by the governing body of 
the private school participating in the program under s. 115.7915 in which the 
individual will teach.
SECTION  2026 .  118.191 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.191 (2) (b)  Notwithstanding s. 118.19 (7) to (9), the department shall 
grant an initial teaching license to teach a vocational education subject to an 
individual who is eligible for licensure under s. 118.19 (4) and (10), who scores at 
least 100 points on the point system under sub. (5m), of which at least 25 points are 
from sub. (5m) (a) 1. and at least 25 points are from sub. (5m) (a) 2., and who agrees 
to complete during the term of the license a curriculum determined by the school 
board of the school district, by the governing body of the private school participating 
in a parental choice program under s. 118.60 or 119.23, or by the governing body of 
the private school participating in the program under s. 115.7915 in which the 
individual will teach.
SECTION  2027 .  118.191 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.191 (2m)   An initial teaching license issued under sub. (2) authorizes an 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1245 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2027
individual to teach only in the school district controlled by the school board, or in 
the private school controlled by the governing body, that determined the curriculum 
the individual agreed to complete in order to qualify for the initial teaching license.
SECTION  2028 .  118.191 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.191 (3)  An initial teaching license issued under sub. (2) is valid for 3 
years.  An initial teaching license issued under sub. (2) is void if the license holder 
ceases to be employed as a teacher in the school district or private school in which 
the license holder is authorized to teach under sub. (2m).
SECTION  2029 .  118.191 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.191 (4)  Upon the expiration of the 3-year term of an initial teaching 
license issued under sub. (2), the department shall issue to the license holder a 
professional teaching license to teach the technical education subject or vocational 
education subject if the individual successfully completed the curriculum that the 
individual agreed to under sub. (2), as determined by the school board of the school 
district, by the governing body of the private school participating in a parental 
choice program under s. 118.60 or 119.23, or by the governing body of the private 
school participating in the program under s. 115.7915 that established the 
curriculum.  The department shall indicate on a professional teaching license 
issued under this subsection that the license was obtained under the experience-
based licensure program under this section.
SECTION  2030 .  118.192 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.192 (4)  A school board or private school participating in a parental choice 
program under s. 118.60 or 119.23 that employs a person who holds a professional 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1246 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2030
teaching permit shall ensure that no regularly licensed teacher is removed from his 
or her position as a result of the employment of persons holding permits.
SECTION  2031 .  118.198 of the statutes is created to read:
118.198   Initial license to teach; teacher apprenticeship.   (1)  The 
department shall grant an initial license to teach to an individual who is eligible for 
licensure under s. 118.19 (4) and (10) and who satisfies all of the following:
(a)  The individual possesses a bachelor [s degree.
(b)  The individual successfully completed a teacher apprenticeship under s. 
106.023.
(c)  If the initial teaching license authorizes the holder to teach in grades 
kindergarten to 5 or in special education, an initial license as a reading teacher, or 
an initial license as a reading specialist, the individual satisfies the requirement 
under s. 118.19 (14).
(2)  A license under sub. (1) authorizes an individual to teach the subject and 
educational levels for which the individual has successfully completed a teacher 
apprenticeship.  The department shall treat an initial license to teach granted 
under sub. (1) in the same manner the state superintendent treats an initial license 
to teach granted in accordance with s. 118.19.
SECTION  2032 .  118.20 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.20 (1)  No discrimination because of sex, except where sex is a bona fide 
occupational qualification as defined in s. 111.36 (2), sexual orientation, as defined 
in s. 111.32 (13m), gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), gender identity, as 
defined in s. 111.32 (7k), race, nationality national origin, or political or religious 
affiliation may be practiced in the employment of teachers or administrative 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1247 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2032
personnel in public schools or in their assignment or reassignment.  No questions of 
any nature or form relative to sex, except where sex is a bona fide occupational 
qualification as defined in s. 111.36 (2), sexual orientation, as defined in s. 111.32 
(13m), gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), gender identity, as defined in 
s. 111.32 (7k), race, nationality national origin, or political or religious affiliation 
may be asked applicants for teaching or administrative positions in the public 
schools either by public school officials or employees or by teachers agencies or 
placement bureaus.
SECTION  2033 .  118.22 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
118.22 (4)  A collective bargaining agreement under subch. IV of ch. 111 may 
modify, waive, or replace any of the provisions of this section as they apply to 
teachers in the collective bargaining unit, but neither the employer nor the 
bargaining agent for the employees is required to bargain such modification, waiver, 
or replacement.
SECTION  2034 .  118.245 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.245 (1)  If a school board wishes to increase the total base wages of its 
general municipal employees, as defined in s. 111.70 (1) (fm), in an amount that 
exceeds the limit under s. 111.70 (4) (mb) 2., the school board shall adopt a 
resolution to that effect.  The resolution shall specify the amount by which the 
proposed total base wages increase will exceed the limit under s. 111.70 (4) (mb) 2.  
The resolution may not take effect unless it is approved in a referendum called for 
that purpose.  The referendum shall occur in April for collective bargaining 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1248 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2034
agreements that begin in July of that year.  The results of a referendum apply to the 
total base wages only in the next collective bargaining agreement.
SECTION  2035 .  118.25 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.25 (1) (a)  XPractitioner Y means a person licensed as a physician, 
naturopathic doctor, or physician assistant in any state or licensed as an advanced 
practice registered nurse or certified as an advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber in any state.  In this paragraph, Xphysician Y has the meaning given in s. 
448.01 (5).
SECTION  2036 .  118.29 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.29 (1) (e)  XPractitioner Y means any physician, naturopathic doctor, 
dentist, optometrist, physician assistant, advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber with prescribing authority, or podiatrist licensed in any state.
SECTION  2037 .  118.2915 (1) (a) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to 
read:
118.2915 (1) (a)  XAdvanced practice registered nurse Y means an individual 
licensed under s. 441.09 who may issue prescription orders under s. 441.09 (2).
SECTION  2038 .  118.2915 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.2915 (2) (a)  The governing body of a school may adopt a plan for the 
management of pupils attending the school who have asthma.  If the governing body 
of a school adopts a plan under this paragraph, it shall specify in the plan the 
training necessary to perform the activities under sub. (4).  The governing body of a 
school may not adopt a plan under this paragraph unless the plan has been 
approved by a physician, an advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, or a 
physician assistant.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1249 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2039
SECTION  2039 .  118.2915 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.2915 (3) (a)  A physician, an advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber, or a physician assistant may provide a prescription or standing order for 
a short-acting bronchodilator or components in the name of a school that has 
adopted a plan under sub. (2) (a) to be maintained by the school for use under sub. 
(4).
SECTION  2040 .  118.2915 (4) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.2915 (4) (c)  In accordance with a prescription or standing order from a 
physician, an advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, or a physician 
assistant, administer a short-acting bronchodilator to a pupil or other person who 
the school nurse or designated school personnel believes in good faith is 
experiencing respiratory distress, regardless of whether the pupil or other person 
has a prescription for a short-acting bronchodilator.
SECTION  2041 .  118.2915 (6) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.2915 (6) (a) (intro.)  None of the following are liable for any injury that 
results from the administration or self-administration of a short-acting 
bronchodilator under this section, regardless of whether authorization was given by 
the pupil [s parent or guardian or by the pupil [s physician, physician assistant, or 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, unless the injury is the result of an 
act or omission that constitutes gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct:
SECTION  2042 .  118.2915 (6) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.2915 (6) (a) 2.  A physician, advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, 
or physician assistant who provides a prescription or standing order for a short-
acting bronchodilator or components to a school under sub. (3) (a).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1250 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2043
SECTION  2043 .  118.2915 (6) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.2915 (6) (a) 3.  A physician, advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, 
physician assistant, or pharmacist who dispenses a short-acting bronchodilator or 
components to a school in accordance with a prescription or standing order under 
sub. (3) (a).
SECTION  2044 .  118.2925 (1) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2045 .  118.2925 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.2925 (3)  PRESCRIPTIONS  FOR SCHOOLS .  A physician, an advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber who may issue prescription orders under s. 441.09 (2), 
or a physician assistant may prescribe epinephrine delivery systems in the name of 
a school that has adopted a plan under sub. (2) (a), to be maintained by the school 
for use under sub. (4).
SECTION  2046 .  118.2925 (4) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.2925 (4) (c)  Administer an epinephrine delivery system to a pupil or other 
person who the school nurse or designated school personnel in good faith believes is 
experiencing anaphylaxis in accordance with a standing protocol from a physician, 
an advanced practice registered nurse prescriber who may issue prescription orders 
under s. 441.09 (2), or a physician assistant, regardless of whether the pupil or 
other person has a prescription for an epinephrine delivery system.  If the pupil or 
other person does not have a prescription for an epinephrine delivery system, or the 
person who administers the epinephrine delivery system does not know whether 
the pupil or other person has a prescription for an epinephrine delivery system, the 
person who administers the epinephrine delivery system shall, as soon as 
practicable, report the administration by dialing the telephone number X911Y or, in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1251 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2046
an area in which the telephone number X911Y is not available, the telephone 
number for an emergency medical service provider.
SECTION  2047 .  118.2925 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.2925 (5)  IMMUNITY  FROM  CIVIL  LIABILITY ; EXEMPTION  FROM  PRACTICE  OF 
MEDICINE .  A school and its designated school personnel, and a physician, advanced 
practice registered nurse prescriber who may issue prescription orders under s. 
441.09 (2), or physician assistant who provides a prescription or standing protocol 
for school epinephrine delivery systems, are not liable for any injury that results 
from the administration or self-administration of an epinephrine delivery system 
under this section, regardless of whether authorization was given by the pupil [s 
parent or guardian or by the pupil [s physician, physician assistant, or advanced 
practice registered nurse prescriber, unless the injury is the result of an act or 
omission that constitutes gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct.  The 
immunity from liability provided under this subsection is in addition to and not in 
lieu of that provided under s. 895.48.
SECTION  2048 .  118.294 (1) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2049 .  118.294 (1) (am) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.294 (1) (am)  XAdvanced practice registered nurse Y has the meaning given 
in s. 154.01 (1g) means an individual licensed under s. 441.09 who may issue 
prescription orders under s. 441.09 (2).
SECTION  2050 .  118.294 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.294 (2)  PRESCRIPTIONS  FOR SCHOOLS .  A physician, an advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber, or a physician assistant may prescribe undesignated 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1252 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2050
glucagon in the name of a school to be maintained by the school for use under sub. 
(3).
SECTION  2051 .  118.294 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.294 (4) (a)  A school and its school personnel, and a physician, an 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, or a physician assistant who 
provides a prescription or standing order for undesignated glucagon are not liable 
for any injury that results from the administration of undesignated glucagon under 
this section, regardless of whether authorization was given by the pupil [s parent or 
guardian or by the pupil [s diabetes provider, unless the injury is the result of an act 
or omission that constitutes gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct.  The 
immunity from liability provided under this paragraph is in addition to and not in 
lieu of that provided under s. 895.48.
SECTION  2052 .  118.33 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.33   (title)  High school graduation standards and ceremonies; 
criteria for promotion.
SECTION  2053 .  118.33 (5c) of the statutes is created to read:
118.33 (5c)  No school board, operator of a charter school, or governing body of 
a private school participating in a program under s. 115.7915, 118.60, or 119.23 
may prohibit a pupil from participating in a high school graduation ceremony 
because the pupil or the pupil [s family has failed to pay an amount owed to the 
school board, operator of the charter school, or governing body of the private school.
SECTION  2054 .  118.40 (2r) (b) 2. m. of the statutes is created to read:
118.40 (2r) (b) 2. m.  A requirement that the charter school governing board 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1253 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2054
provide period products to any pupil who needs them while at school, at no charge to 
the pupil.
SECTION  2055 .  118.40 (2r) (b) 2. n. of the statutes is created to read:
118.40 (2r) (b) 2. n.  If the contract is for the operation of a charter school that 
includes a grade from 9 to 12, a requirement that the charter school make available 
to pupils in grades 9 to 12 at least one computer science course that includes 
concepts in computer programming or coding.
SECTION  2056 .  118.40 (2r) (e) 2p. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.40 (2r) (e) 2p. (intro.)  In Beginning in the 2015-16 school year and in each 
ending in the 2024-25 school year thereafter, for a pupil attending a charter school 
established by or under a contract with an entity under par. (b) 1., from the 
appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (fm), the department shall pay to the operator of 
the charter school an amount equal to the sum of the amount paid per pupil under 
this paragraph in the previous school year; the amount of the per pupil revenue 
limit adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if positive; the 
change in the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), between the previous 
school year and current school year, if positive; the change in the amount of 
statewide categorical aid per pupil between the previous school year and the 
current school year, if positive; and in the 2023-24 school year, 15.7 percent of the 
revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), for that school year.  The change in the 
statewide categorical aid per pupil shall be determined as follows:
SECTION  2057 .  118.40 (2r) (e) 2q. of the statutes is created to read:
118.40 (2r) (e) 2q.  Beginning in the 2025-26 school year and in each school 
year thereafter, from the appropriation under s. 20.255 (2) (fm), for a pupil 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1254 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2057
attending a charter school established by or under a contract with an entity under 
par. (b) 1., the department shall pay to the operator of the charter school an amount 
equal to the sum of the amount paid per pupil under this paragraph in the previous 
school year; the amount of the per pupil revenue limit adjustment under s. 121.91 
(2m) for the current school year, if positive; and the change in the per pupil amount 
under s. 115.437 (2) (a) 1. between the previous school year and the current school 
year, if positive.
SECTION  2058 .  118.40 (2r) (g) 1. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.40 (2r) (g) 1. b.  Multiply the number of pupils under subd. 1. a. by the per 
pupil amount calculated under par. (e) 2p. 2q. for that school year.
SECTION  2059 .  118.40 (2x) (b) 2. m. of the statutes is created to read:
118.40 (2x) (b) 2. m.  A requirement that the charter school governing board 
provide period products to any pupil who needs them while at school, at no charge to 
the pupil.
SECTION  2060 .  118.40 (2x) (b) 2. n. of the statutes is created to read:
118.40 (2x) (b) 2. n.  If the contract is for the operation of a charter school that 
includes a grade from 9 to 12, a requirement that the charter school make available 
to pupils in grades 9 to 12 at least one computer science course that includes 
concepts in computer programming or coding.
SECTION  2061 .  118.42 (3) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.42 (3) (a) 4.  Implement changes in administrative and personnel 
structures that are consistent with applicable collective bargaining agreements 
under subch. IV of ch. 111.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1255 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2062
SECTION  2062 .  118.42 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.42 (5)  Nothing in this section alters or otherwise affects the rights or 
remedies afforded school districts and school district employees under federal or 
state law or under the terms of any applicable collective bargaining agreement 
under subch. IV of ch. 111.
SECTION  2063 .  118.50 (2m) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.50 (2m)  (a) 2.  Beginning in the 2017-18 school year and ending in the 
2024-25 school year, the sum of the per pupil amount under this paragraph for the 
previous school year; the amount of the per pupil revenue limit adjustment under s. 
121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if positive; and the change in the amount of 
statewide categorical aid per pupil between the previous school year and the 
current school year, as determined under s. 118.40 (2r) (e) 2p., if positive.
SECTION  2064 .  118.50 (2m) (a) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
118.50 (2m)  (a) 3.  Beginning in the 2025-26 school year, the sum of the per 
pupil amount under this paragraph for the previous school year; the amount of the 
per pupil revenue limit adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, 
if positive; and the change in the per pupil amount under s. 115.437 (2) (a) 1. 
between the previous school year and the current school year, if positive.
SECTION  2065 .  118.51 (1) (aj) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2066 .  118.51 (9) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.51 (9)  APPEAL  OF REJECTION .  If the nonresident school board rejects an 
application under sub. (3) (a) or (7), the resident school board prohibits a pupil from 
attending public school in a nonresident school district under sub. (3m) (d) or the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1256 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2066
nonresident school board prohibits a pupil from attending public school in the 
nonresident school district under sub. (11), the pupil [s parent may appeal the 
decision to the department within 30 days after the decision.  If the nonresident 
school board provides notice that the special education or related service is not 
available under sub. (12) (b), the pupil [s parent may appeal the required transfer to 
the department within 30 days after receipt of the notice.  The department shall 
affirm the school board [s decision unless the department finds that the decision 
was arbitrary or unreasonable.
SECTION  2067 .  118.51 (12) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.51 (12) (title)  N ONRESIDENT  SCHOOL  DISTRICT  STATEMENT  OF 
EDUCATIONAL  COSTS ; SPECIAL  SPECIAL  EDUCATION  OR RELATED  SERVICES .
SECTION  2068 .  118.51 (12) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2069 .  118.51 (12) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 118.51 (12).
SECTION  2070 .  118.51 (16) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.51 (16) (a) 1.  For each school district, the number of nonresident pupils 
attending public school in the school district under this section, other than pupils 
for whom a payment is made under sub. (17) (a), or (c), or (cm).
SECTION  2071 .  118.51 (16) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.51 (16) (a) 2.  For each school district, the number of resident pupils 
attending public school in a nonresident school district under this section, other 
than pupils for whom a payment is made under sub. (17) (a), or (c), or (cm).
SECTION  2072 .  118.51 (16) (a) 3. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.51 (16) (a) 3. b.  Beginning with the amount in the 2015-16 school year 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1257 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2072
and ending with the amount in the 2024-25 school year, except as provided in subd. 
3. c., in each school year thereafter, the sum of the amount determined under this 
subdivision for the previous school year; the amount of the per pupil revenue limit 
adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if positive; and the 
change in the amount of statewide categorical aid per pupil between the previous 
school year and the current school year, as determined under s. 118.40 (2r) (e) 2p., if 
positive.
SECTION  2073 .  118.51 (16) (a) 3. bm. of the statutes is created to read:
118.51 (16) (a) 3. bm.  Beginning with the amount for the 2025-26 school year 
and in each school year thereafter, the sum of the amount determined under this 
subdivision for the previous school year; the amount of the per pupil revenue limit 
adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if positive; and the 
change in the per pupil amount under s. 115.437 (2) (a) 1. between the previous 
school year and the current school year, if positive.
SECTION  2074 .  118.51 (16) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.51 (16) (c)  If a pupil attends public school in a nonresident school district 
under this section for less than a full school term, the department shall prorate the 
state aid adjustments under this subsection and sub. (17) (c) and (cm) based on the 
number of days that school is in session and the pupil attends public school in the 
nonresident school district.
SECTION  2075 .  118.51 (16) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.51 (16) (d)  The department shall ensure that the aid adjustments under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1258 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2075
par. (b) and sub. (17) (c) and (cm) do not affect the amount determined to be received 
by a school district as state aid under s. 121.08 for any other purpose.
SECTION  2076 .  118.51 (17) (b) 2. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.51 (17) (b) 2. b.  In the 2017-18 school year, the 2025-26 school year, and 
each school year thereafter, the per pupil transfer amount is the sum of the per 
pupil transfer amount for the previous school year; the amount of the per pupil 
revenue limit adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if 
positive; and the change in the amount of statewide categorical aid per pupil 
between the previous school year and the current school year, as determined under 
s. 118.40 (2r) (e) 2p., if positive.
SECTION  2077 .  118.51 (17) (b) 2. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.51 (17) (b) 2. c.  Beginning in the 2018-19 school year, and subject to subd. 
3. and ending in the 2024-25 school year, the per pupil transfer amount is the sum 
of the per pupil transfer amount for the previous school year; the amount of the per 
pupil revenue limit adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if 
positive; and the change in the amount of statewide categorical aid per pupil 
between the previous school year and the current school year, as determined under 
s. 118.40 (2r) (e) 2p., if positive, or the amount under s. 118.51 (17) (b) 3., 2023 
stats., if applicable.
SECTION  2078 .  118.51 (17) (b) 2. cm. of the statutes is created to read:
118.51 (17) (b) 2. cm.  Beginning in the 2025-26 school year, the per pupil 
transfer amount is the sum of the per pupil transfer amount for the previous school 
year; the amount of the per pupil revenue limit adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1259 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2078
the current school year, if positive; and the change in the per pupil amount under s. 
115.437 (2) (a) 1. between the previous school year and the current school year, if 
positive.
SECTION  2079 .  118.51 (17) (b) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2080 .  118.51 (17) (bm) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2081 .  118.51 (17) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.51 (17) (c) 1.  If Beginning in the 2025-26 school year, if the number 
determined in par. (b) 1. a. is greater than the number determined in par. (b) 1. b. 
for a school district, in the 2016-17, 2017-18, and 2018-19 school years, the 
department shall increase that school district [s state aid payment under s. 121.08 
by an amount equal to the difference multiplied by an the amount under par. (b) 2. 
a., b., or c. for the applicable school year.
2.  If Beginning in the 2025-26 school year, if the number determined in par. 
(b) 1. a. is less than the number determined in par. (b) 1. b. for a school district, in 
the 2016-17, 2017-18, and 2018-19 school years, the department shall decrease that 
school district [s state aid payment under s. 121.08 by an amount equal to the 
difference multiplied by an the amount under par. (b) 2. a., b., or c. for the applicable 
school year.  If the state aid payment under s. 121.08 is insufficient to cover the 
reduction, the department shall decrease other state aid payments made by the 
department to the school district by the remaining amount.  If the state aid 
payment under s. 121.08 and other state aid payments made by the department to 
the school district are insufficient to cover the reduction, the department shall use 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1260 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2081
the moneys appropriated under s. 20.255 (2) (cg) to pay the balance to school 
districts under subd. 1.
SECTION  2082 .  118.51 (17) (cm) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2083 .  118.60 (2) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (2) (a) (intro.)  Subject to pars. (ag) and, (ar), and (bh), any pupil in 
grades kindergarten to 12 who resides within in an eligible school district may 
attend any private school under this section and, subject to pars. (ag), (ar), (be), 
(bh), (bm), and (bs), any pupil in grades kindergarten to 12 who resides in a school 
district, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class city school district, may 
attend any private school under this section if all of the following apply:
SECTION  2084 .  118.60 (2) (a) 2. g. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (2) (a) 2. g.  If the pupil resides in a school district, other than an 
eligible school district or a 1st class city school district, the pupil was on a waiting 
list under sub. (3) (am) 4. or (ar) 4. in any previous school year.
SECTION  2085 .  118.60 (2) (a) 6. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (2) (a) 6. a.  Except as provided in subd. 6. c. and d., all of the private 
school[s teachers have a teaching license issued by the department or a bachelor [s 
degree or a degree or educational credential higher than a bachelor [s degree, 
including a masters master [s or doctorate, from a nationally or regionally 
accredited institution of higher education.  This subd. 6. a. does not apply after 
June 30, 2028.
SECTION  2086 .  118.60 (2) (a) 6m. of the statutes is created to read:
118.60 (2) (a) 6m. a.  Except as provided in subd. 6m. b., beginning on July 1, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1261 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2086
2028, all of the private school [s teachers have a teaching license or permit issued by 
the department.
b.  A teacher employed by the private school on July 1, 2028, who has been 
teaching for at least the 5 consecutive years immediately preceding July 1, 2028, 
and who does not satisfy the requirements under subd. 6m. a. on July 1, 2028, may 
apply to the department on a form prepared by the department for a temporary, 
nonrenewable waiver from the requirements under subd. 6m. a.  The department 
shall promulgate rules to implement this subd. 6m. b., including the form of the 
application and the process by which the waiver application will be reviewed.  The 
application form shall require the applicant to submit a plan for satisfying the 
requirements under subd. 6m. a.  No waiver granted under this subd. 6m. b. is valid 
after July 1, 2033.
SECTION  2087 .  118.60 (2) (a) 10. of the statutes is created to read:
118.60 (2) (a) 10.  If the private school operates any grade from 9 to 12, the 
private school makes available to pupils in grades 9 to 12 at least one computer 
science course that includes concepts in computer programming or coding.
SECTION  2088 .  118.60 (2) (be) 1. a. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2089 .  118.60 (2) (be) 1. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (2) (be) 1. c.  XPupil participation limit Y means a school district [s 
membership in the previous school year multiplied by the applicable percentage for 
the current school year 0.1.
SECTION  2090 .  118.60 (2) (be) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (2) (be) 2.  Except as provided in subd. 2m., beginning with the 2015-16 
school year and ending with the 2025-26 school year, the total number of pupils 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1262 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2090
residing in a school district, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class city 
school district, who may attend a private school under this section during a school 
year may not exceed the school district [s pupil participation limit for that school 
year.
SECTION  2091 .  118.60 (2) (be) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2092 .  118.60 (2) (bh) of the statutes is created to read:
118.60 (2) (bh) 1.  In this paragraph, Xprogram cap Y means any of the 
following:
a.  For an eligible school district, the total number of pupils residing in the 
eligible school district who attended a private school under this section in the 2025-
26 school year.
b.  For all school districts, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class 
city school district, the total number of pupils residing in those school districts who 
attended a private school under this section in the 2025-26 school year.
2. a.  Beginning with the 2026-27 school year, the total number of pupils 
residing in an eligible school district who may attend a private school under this 
section during a school year may not exceed the program cap under subd. 1. a.
b.  Beginning with the 2026-27 school year, the total number of pupils residing 
in school districts, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class city school 
district, who may attend a private school under this section during a school year 
may not exceed the program cap under subd. 1. b.
SECTION  2093 .  118.60 (2) (c) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
118.60 (2) (c) 3.  Notwithstanding par. (a) 6m., a teacher employed by a private 
school participating in the program under this section who teaches only courses in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1263 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2093
rabbinical studies is not required to hold a license or permit to teach issued by the 
department.
SECTION  2094 .  118.60 (3) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (3) (a) (intro.)  The pupil or the pupil [s parent or guardian shall submit 
an application, on a form provided by the state superintendent, to the participating 
private school that the pupil wishes to attend.  If more than one pupil from the same 
family applies to attend the same private school, the pupils may use a single 
application.  No later than 60 days after the end of the application period during 
which an application is received and subject to par. pars. (am) and (ar), the private 
school shall notify each applicant, in writing, whether his or her application has 
been accepted.  If the private school rejects an application, the notice shall include 
the reason.  Subject to par. pars. (am) and (ar), a private school may reject an 
applicant only if it the private school has reached its maximum general capacity or 
seating capacity.  Except as provided in par. pars. (am) and (ar), the state 
superintendent shall ensure that the private school determines which pupils to 
accept on a random basis, except that the private school may give preference to the 
following in accepting applications, in the order of preference listed:
SECTION  2095 .  118.60 (3) (am) of the statutes is created to read:
118.60 (3) (am)  All of the following apply to applications to attend a private 
school under this section submitted by pupils who reside in an eligible school 
district:
1.  A private school that has submitted a notice of intent to participate under 
sub. (2) (a) 3. a. may accept applications for a school year during application periods 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1264 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2095
determined by the department from pupils who reside in an eligible school district.  
For each school year, the department shall establish one or more application 
periods under this subdivision, the first of which begins no earlier than the first 
weekday in February of the school year before the applicable school year, and the 
last of which ends no later than September 14 of the applicable school year.
2.  Each private school that received applications under subd. 1. shall report to 
the department the number of pupils who applied under subd. 1. to attend the 
private school under this section and the names of those applicants who have 
siblings who also applied under subd. 1. to attend the private school under this 
section.  The private school shall submit the report no later than 10 days after each 
application period described under subd. 1. during which the private school 
received applications.
3.  After the end of each application period described under subd. 1., upon 
receipt of the information under subd. 2., the department shall determine the sum 
of all applicants for pupils residing in an eligible school district.  In determining the 
sum, the department shall count a pupil who has applied to attend more than one 
private school under the program under this section only once.  If, after the end of 
an application period described under subd. 1., the sum of all applicants for pupils 
residing in an eligible school district exceeds the program cap under sub. (2) (bh) 2. 
a., the department shall determine which applications submitted during the 
application period to accept on a random basis, except that the department shall 
give preference to the applications of pupils described in par. (a) 1m. to 5., in the 
order of preference listed in that paragraph.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1265 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2095
4.  If the sum under subd. 3. exceeds the program cap under sub. (2) (bh) 2. a., 
the department shall establish a waiting list in accordance with the preferences 
required under subd. 3.
5.  A private school that has accepted a pupil who resides in an eligible school 
district under this paragraph shall notify the department whenever the private 
school determines that a pupil will not attend the private school under this 
paragraph.  If, upon receiving notice under this subdivision, the department 
determines that the number of pupils attending private schools under this section 
falls below the program cap under sub. (2) (bh) 2. a., the department shall fill any 
available slot with a pupil selected from the waiting list established under subd. 4., 
if such a waiting list exists.
SECTION  2096 .  118.60 (3) (ar) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (3) (ar) (intro.)  All of the following apply to applications to attend a 
private school under this section only if the limitation under sub. (2) (be) applies to 
the school year for which the application is made submitted by pupils who reside in 
a school district, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class city school 
district:
SECTION  2097 .  118.60 (3) (ar) 3. of the statutes is renumbered 118.60 (3) (ar) 
3. (intro.) and amended to read:
118.60 (3) (ar) 3. (intro.)  Annually After the end of the application period 
described under subd. 1., upon receipt of the information under subd. 2., the 
department shall, for each school district, determine the sum of all applicants for 
pupils residing in that school district under this paragraph and the sum of all 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1266 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2097
applicants for pupils residing in all school districts, other than an eligible school 
district or a 1st class city school district.  In determining the sum those sums, the 
department shall count a pupil who has applied to attend more than one private 
school under the program only once.  After determining the sum of all applicants for 
pupils residing in a school district, those sums, if any of the following applies, the 
department shall determine which applications to accept on a random basis, except 
that the department shall give preference to the applications of pupils described in 
par. (a) 1m. to 5., in the order of preference listed in that paragraph.:
SECTION  2098 .  118.60 (3) (ar) 3. a. and b. of the statutes are created to read:
118.60 (3) (ar) 3. a.  The sum of all applicants for pupils residing in a school 
district, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class city school district, 
exceeds the school district [s pupil participation limit under sub. (2) (be).
b.  The sum of all applicants for pupils residing in all school districts, other 
than an eligible school district or a 1st class city school district, exceeds the 
program cap under sub. (2) (bh) 2. b.
SECTION  2099 .  118.60 (3) (ar) 4. of the statutes is renumbered 118.60 (3) (ar) 
4. (intro.) and amended to read:
118.60 (3) (ar) 4. (intro.)  For each school district in which private schools 
received applications under subd. 1. that exceeded the school district [s pupil 
participation limit under sub. (2) (be), the The department shall establish a waiting 
list in accordance with the preferences required under subd. 3. for each of the 
following:
SECTION  2100 .  118.60 (3) (ar) 4. a. and b. of the statutes are created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1267 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2100
118.60 (3) (ar) 4. a.  A school district, other than an eligible school district or a 
1st class city school district, for which the sum described under subd. 3. a. exceeds 
the school district [s pupil participation limit under sub. (2) (be).
b.  All school districts, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class city 
school district, if the sum described under subd. 3. b. exceeds the program cap 
under sub. (2) (bh) 2. b.
SECTION  2101 .  118.60 (3) (ar) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (3) (ar) 5.  A private school that has accepted a pupil who resides in a 
school district, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class city school district, 
under this paragraph shall notify the department whenever the private school 
determines that a pupil will not attend the private school under this paragraph.  If, 
upon receiving notice under this subdivision, the department determines that the 
number of pupils attending private schools under this section falls below a school 
district[s pupil participation limit under sub. (2) (be), or below the program cap 
under sub. (2) (bh) 2. b., the department shall fill any available slot in that school 
district or program with a pupil selected from the school district [s applicable 
waiting list established under subd. 4., if such a waiting list exists.
SECTION  2102 .  118.60 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (3) (b)  If a participating private school rejects an applicant who resides 
within in an eligible school district because the private school has too few available 
spaces, the applicant may transfer his or her application to a participating private 
school that has space available.  An applicant who is rejected under this paragraph 
or an applicant who is on the waiting list under par. (am) 4. may, subject to sub. (2) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1268 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2102
(bh) 2. a., be admitted to a private school participating in the program under this 
section for the following school year, provided that the applicant continues to reside 
within in an eligible school district.  The department may not require, in that 
following school year, the private school to submit financial information regarding 
the applicant or to verify the eligibility of the applicant to participate in the 
program under this section on the basis of family income.
SECTION  2103 .  118.60 (3) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (3) (c)  If a participating private school rejects an applicant who resides 
in a school district, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class city school 
district, because the private school has too few available spaces, the applicant may 
transfer his or her application to a participating private school that has space 
available.  An applicant who is rejected under this paragraph or an applicant who is 
on the a waiting list under par. (ar) 4. a. or b. may, subject to sub. (2) (be) and (bh) 2. 
b., be admitted to a private school participating in the program under this section 
for the following school year, provided that the applicant continues to reside in a 
school district, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class city school district.  
The department may not require, in that following school year, the private school to 
submit financial information regarding the applicant or to verify the eligibility of 
the applicant to participate in the program under this section on the basis of family 
income.
SECTION  2104 .  118.60 (4) (bg) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (4) (bg) 3.  In the 2015-16 to 2024-25 school year and in each school 
year thereafter years, upon receipt from the pupil [s parent or guardian of proof of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1269 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2104
the pupil [s enrollment in the private school during a school term, except as provided 
in subd. 5., the state superintendent shall pay to the private school in which the 
pupil is enrolled on behalf of the pupil [s parent or guardian, from the appropriation 
under s. 20.255 (2) (fr), an amount equal to the sum of the maximum amount per 
pupil the state superintendent paid a private school under this section in the 
previous school year for the grade in which the pupil is enrolled; in the 2023-24 
school year, if the pupil is enrolled in a grade from kindergarten to 8, 10 percent of 
the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), for that school year; the amount of 
the per pupil revenue adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if 
positive; 90 percent of the change in the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), 
between the previous school year and current school year, if positive, if the pupil is 
enrolled in a grade from kindergarten to 8, or if the pupil is enrolled in a grade from 
9 to 12, the change in the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), between the 
previous school year and current school year, if positive; the change in the amount 
of statewide categorical aid per pupil between the previous school year and the 
current school year, as determined under s. 118.40 (2r) (e) 2p., if positive; and in the 
2023-24 school year, if the pupil is enrolled in a grade from 9 to 12, 26.8 percent of 
the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), for that school year.
SECTION  2105 .  118.60 (4) (bg) 6. of the statutes is created to read:
118.60 (4) (bg) 6.  Beginning in the 2025-26 school year and in each school year 
thereafter, upon receipt from the pupil [s parent or guardian of proof of the pupil [s 
enrollment in the private school during a school term, except as provided in subd. 
7., the state superintendent shall pay to the private school in which the pupil is 
enrolled on behalf of the pupil [s parent or guardian, from the appropriation under s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1270 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2105
20.255 (2) (fr), an amount equal to the sum of the maximum amount per pupil the 
state superintendent paid a private school under this section in the previous school 
year for the grade in which the pupil is enrolled; the amount of the per pupil 
revenue adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if positive; and 
the change in the per pupil amount under s. 115.437 (2) (a) 1. between the previous 
school year and the current school year, if positive.
SECTION  2106 .  118.60 (4) (bg) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
118.60 (4) (bg) 7.  If the pupil described in subd. 6. is enrolled in a private 
school that enrolls pupils under the program in any grade between kindergarten to 
8 and also in any grade between 9 to 12, the state superintendent shall substitute 
for the amount described in subd. 6. the amount determined under subd. 4. a. to d., 
with the following modifications:
a.  Multiply the number of pupils participating in the program who are 
enrolled in the private school in any grade between kindergarten to 8 by the sum of 
the maximum amount per pupil the state superintendent paid a private school 
under this section in the previous school year for the grade in which the pupil is 
enrolled; the amount of the per pupil revenue adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for 
the current school year, if positive; and the change in the per pupil amount under s. 
115.437 (2) (a) 1. between the previous school year and the current school year, if 
positive.
b.  Multiply the number of pupils participating in the program who are 
enrolled in the private school in any grade between 9 to 12 by the sum of the 
maximum amount per pupil the state superintendent paid a private school under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1271 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2106
this section in the previous school year for the grade in which the pupil is enrolled; 
the amount of the per pupil revenue adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the 
current school year, if positive; and the change in the per pupil amount under s. 
115.437 (2) (a) 1. between the previous school year and the current school year, if 
positive.
SECTION  2107 .  118.60 (4v) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (4v) (b)  If the department considers a pupil as a resident of an eligible 
school district under par. (a) for a school year, the department shall ensure that the 
pupil is not counted for that school year for purposes of determining whether a 
school district has exceeded its pupil participation limit under sub. (2) (be) and that 
the pupil is not counted for that school year for purposes of determining whether a 
program cap under sub. (2) (bh) 2. a. or b. has been exceeded.
SECTION  2108 .  118.60 (4v) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
118.60 (4v) (c)  The department may consider a pupil enrolled in a private 
school participating in the program under this section who satisfies all of the 
following as a resident of a school district, other than an eligible school district or a 
1st class city school district, who is enrolled in the private school under this section:
1.  The pupil was a resident of an eligible school district when the pupil 
applied to participate in the program under this section.
2.  The pupil accepted a space at a private school participating in the program 
under this section as a resident of an eligible school district.
3.  The pupil resides in a school district, other than an eligible school district 
or a 1st class city school district, on the 3rd Friday in September.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1272 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2108
4.  The private school the pupil is attending under this section accepts 
applications under this section from pupils who reside in school districts, other 
than an eligible school district or a 1st class city school district.
SECTION  2109 .  118.60 (4v) (d) of the statutes is created to read:
118.60 (4v) (d)  If the department considers a pupil as a resident of a school 
district, other than an eligible school district or a 1st class city school district, under 
par. (c) for a school year, the department shall ensure that the pupil is not counted 
for that school year for purposes of determining whether the school district has 
exceeded its pupil participation limit under sub. (2) (be) and that the pupil is not 
counted for that school year for purposes of determining whether a program cap 
under sub. (2) (bh) 2. a. or b. has been exceeded.
SECTION  2110 .  118.60 (7) (g) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (7) (g) 1.  By the first day of the 3rd month beginning after the month in 
which the department establishes the model management plan and practices for 
maintaining indoor environmental quality in public and private schools under s. 
118.075 (3), or by October 1 of a private school [s first school year of participation in 
the program under this section, whichever is later, the private school shall provide 
for the development of a plan for maintaining indoor environmental quality in the 
private school.  Beginning on October 1, 2026, each private school shall include in 
the private school [s plan under this subdivision a requirement to provide and 
maintain a carbon monoxide detector, as defined in s. 101.149 (1) (am), in each room 
of the private school that contains a fuel-burning, forced-air furnace or a boiler, and 
as otherwise required by the department of safety and professional services or a 
person certified under s. 101.12 (4) or 101.14 (4r).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1273 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2111
SECTION  2111 .  118.60 (7) (g) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
118.60 (7) (g) 2.  By the first day of the 12th month beginning after the month 
in which the department establishes the model management plan and practices for 
maintaining indoor environmental quality in public and private schools under s. 
118.075 (3), or by the beginning of the 2nd school year of participation in the 
program under this section, whichever is later, the private school shall implement a 
plan for maintaining indoor environmental quality in the private school.  By July 1, 
2027, or by the beginning of the 2nd school year of participation in the program 
under this section, whichever is later, the private school shall provide a carbon 
monoxide detector, as defined in s. 101.149 (1) (am), in each room of the private 
school that contains a fuel-burning, forced-air furnace or a boiler, and as otherwise 
required by the department of safety and professional services or a person certified 
under s. 101.12 (4) or 101.14 (4r) and reasonably maintain every carbon monoxide 
detector in the private school in the manner specified in the instructions for the 
carbon monoxide detector.
SECTION  2112 .  119.04 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
119.04 (1)  Subchapters IV, V and VII of ch. 115, ch. 121 and ss. 66.0235 (3) (c), 
66.0603 (1m) to (3), 115.01 (1) and (2), 115.28, 115.31, 115.33, 115.34, 115.343, 
115.345, 115.355, 115.363, 115.364, 115.365 (3), 115.366, 115.367, 115.38 (2), 
115.415, 115.422, 115.445, 115.448, 118.001 to 118.04, 118.045, 118.06, 118.07, 
118.075, 118.076, 118.10, 118.12, 118.124, 118.125 to 118.14, 118.145 (4), 118.15, 
118.153, 118.16, 118.162, 118.163, 118.164, 118.18, 118.19, 118.196, 118.20, 
118.223, 118.225, 118.24 (1), (2) (c) to (f), (6), (8), and (10), 118.245, 118.25, 118.255, 
118.258, 118.291, 118.292, 118.293, 118.2935, 118.30 to 118.43, 118.46, 118.50, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1274 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2112
118.51, 118.52, 118.53, 118.55, 118.56, 118.58, 120.12 (2m), (4m), (5), and (15) to 
(27), 120.125, 120.13 (1), (2) (b) to (g), (3), (14), (17) to (19), (26), (34), (35), (37), 
(37m), and (38), 120.137, 120.14, 120.20, 120.21 (3), and 120.25 are applicable to a 
1st class city school district and board but not, unless explicitly provided in this 
chapter or in the terms of a contract, to the commissioner or to any school 
transferred to an opportunity schools and partnership program.
SECTION  2113 .  119.23 (2) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
119.23 (2) (a) (intro.)  Subject to pars. (ag) and, (ar), and (b), any pupil in 
grades kindergarten to 12 who resides within the city may attend any private 
school if all of the following apply:
SECTION  2114 .  119.23 (2) (a) 6. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
119.23 (2) (a) 6. a.  Except as provided in subd. 6. c., all of the private school [s 
teachers have a teaching license issued by the department or a bachelor [s degree or 
a degree or educational credential higher than a bachelor [s degree, including a 
masters master [s or doctorate, from a nationally or regionally accredited institution 
of higher education.  This subd. 6. a. does not apply after June 30, 2028.
SECTION  2115 .  119.23 (2) (a) 6m. of the statutes is created to read:
119.23 (2) (a) 6m. a.  Except as provided in subd. 6m. b., beginning on July 1, 
2028, all of the private school [s teachers have a teaching license or permit issued by 
the department.
b.  A teacher employed by the private school on July 1, 2028, who has been 
teaching for at least the 5 consecutive years immediately preceding July 1, 2028, 
and who does not satisfy the requirements under subd. 6m. a. on July 1, 2028, may 
apply to the department on a form prepared by the department for a temporary, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1275 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2115
nonrenewable waiver from the requirements under subd. 6m. a.  The department 
shall promulgate rules to implement this subd. 6m. b., including the form of the 
application and the process by which the waiver application will be reviewed.  The 
application form shall require the applicant to submit a plan for satisfying the 
requirements under subd. 6m. a.  No waiver granted under this subd. 6m. b. is valid 
after July 1, 2033.
SECTION  2116 .  119.23 (2) (a) 10. of the statutes is created to read:
119.23 (2) (a) 10.  If the private school operates any grade from 9 to 12, the 
private school makes available to pupils in grades 9 to 12 at least one computer 
science course that includes concepts in computer programming or coding.
SECTION  2117 .  119.23 (2) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
119.23 (2) (b) 1.  In this paragraph, Xprogram cap Y means the total number of 
pupils residing in the city who attended a private school under this section in the 
2025-26 school year.
2.  Beginning with the 2026-27 school year, the total number of pupils residing 
in the city who may attend a private school under this section during a school year 
may not exceed the program cap.
SECTION  2118 .  119.23 (2) (c) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
119.23 (2) (c) 3.  Notwithstanding par. (a) 6m., a teacher employed by a private 
school participating in the program under this section who teaches only courses in 
rabbinical studies is not required to hold a license or permit to teach issued by the 
department.
SECTION  2119 .  119.23 (3) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1276 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2119
119.23 (3) (a) (intro.)  The pupil or the pupil [s parent or guardian shall submit 
an application, on a form provided by the state superintendent, to the participating 
private school that the pupil wishes to attend.  If more than one pupil from the same 
family applies to attend the same private school, the pupils may use a single 
application.  No later than 60 days after the end of the application period during 
which an application is received and subject to par. (ar), the private school shall 
notify each applicant, in writing, whether his or her application has been accepted.  
If the private school rejects an application, the notice shall include the reason.   A  
Subject to par. (ar), a private school may reject an applicant only if it the private 
school has reached its maximum general capacity or seating capacity.  The Except 
as provided in par. (ar), the state superintendent shall ensure that the private 
school determines which pupils to accept on a random basis, except that the private 
school may give preference to the following in accepting applications, in order of 
preference listed:
SECTION  2120 .  119.23 (3) (ar) of the statutes is created to read:
119.23 (3) (ar)  All of the following apply to applications to attend a private 
school under this section submitted by pupils who reside in the city:
1.  A private school that has submitted a notice of intent to participate under 
sub. (2) (a) 3. may accept applications for a school year during application periods 
determined by the department from pupils who reside in the city.  For each school 
year, the department shall establish one or more application periods under this 
subdivision, the first of which begins no later than the first weekday in February of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1277 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2120
the school year before the applicable school year, and the last of which ends no later 
than September 14 of the applicable school year.
2.  Each private school that received applications under subd. 1. shall report to 
the department the number of pupils who applied under subd. 1. to attend the 
private school under this section and the names of those applicants who have 
siblings who also applied under subd. 1. to attend the private school under this 
section.  The private school shall submit the report no later than 10 days after each 
application period described under subd. 1. during which the private school 
received applications.
3.  After the end of each application period described under subd. 1., upon 
receipt of the information under subd. 2., the department shall determine the sum 
of all applicants for pupils residing in the city.  In determining the sum, the 
department shall count a pupil who has applied to attend more than one private 
school under the program under this section only once.  If, after the end of an 
application period described under subd. 1., the sum of all applicants for pupils 
residing in the city exceeds the program cap under sub. (2) (b), the department shall 
determine which applications submitted during the application period to accept on 
a random basis, except that the department shall give preference to the applications 
of pupils described in par. (a) 1. to 5., in the order of preference listed in that 
paragraph.
4.  If the sum under subd. 3. exceeds the program cap under sub. (2) (b), the 
department shall establish a waiting list in accordance with the preferences 
required under subd. 3.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1278 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2120
5.  A private school that has accepted a pupil who resides in the city under this 
paragraph shall notify the department whenever the private school determines 
that a pupil will not attend the private school under this paragraph.  If, upon 
receiving notice under this subdivision, the department determines that the 
number of pupils attending private schools under this section falls below the 
program cap under sub. (2) (b), the department shall fill any available slot with a 
pupil selected from the waiting list established under subd. 4., if such a waiting list 
exists.
SECTION  2121 .  119.23 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
119.23 (3) (b)  If the private school rejects an applicant because it the private 
school has too few available spaces, the applicant may transfer his or her 
application to a participating private school that has space available.  An applicant 
who is rejected under this paragraph or an applicant who is on the waiting list 
under par. (ar) 4. may, subject to sub. (2) (b), be admitted to a private school 
participating in the program under this section for the following school year, 
provided that the applicant continues to reside within in the city.  The department 
may not require, in that following school year, the private school to submit financial 
information regarding the applicant or to verify the eligibility of the applicant to 
participate in the program under this section on the basis of family income.
SECTION  2122 .  119.23 (4) (bg) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
119.23 (4) (bg) 3.  In the 2015-16 to 2024-25 school year and in each school 
year thereafter years, upon receipt from the pupil [s parent or guardian of proof of 
the pupil [s enrollment in the private school during a school term, except as provided 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1279 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2122
in subd. 5., the state superintendent shall pay to the private school in which the 
pupil is enrolled on behalf of the pupil [s parent or guardian, from the appropriation 
under s. 20.255 (2) (fu), an amount equal to the sum of the maximum amount per 
pupil the state superintendent paid a private school under this section in the 
previous school year for the grade in which the pupil is enrolled; in the 2023-24 
school year, if the pupil is enrolled in a grade from kindergarten to 8, 10 percent of 
the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), for that school year; the amount of 
the per pupil revenue adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if 
positive; 90 percent of the change in the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), 
between the previous school year and current school year, if positive, if the pupil is 
enrolled in a grade from kindergarten to 8, or if the pupil is enrolled in a grade from 
9 to 12, the change in the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), between the 
previous school year and current school year, if positive; the change in the amount 
of statewide categorical aid per pupil between the previous school year and the 
current school year, as determined under s. 118.40 (2r) (e) 2p., if positive; and in the 
2023-24 school year, if the pupil is enrolled in a grade from 9 to 12, 26.8 percent of 
the revenue ceiling, as defined in s. 121.905 (1), for that school year.
SECTION  2123 .  119.23 (4) (bg) 6. of the statutes is created to read:
119.23 (4) (bg) 6.  Beginning in the 2025-26 school year and in each school year 
thereafter, upon receipt from the pupil [s parent or guardian of proof of the pupil [s 
enrollment in the private school during a school term, except as provided in subd. 
7., the state superintendent shall pay to the private school in which the pupil is 
enrolled on behalf of the pupil [s parent or guardian, from the appropriation under s. 
20.255 (2) (fu), an amount equal to the sum of the maximum amount per pupil the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1280 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2123
state superintendent paid a private school under this section in the previous school 
year for the grade in which the pupil is enrolled; the amount of the per pupil 
revenue adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the current school year, if positive; and 
the change in the per pupil amount under s. 115.437 (2) (a) 1. between the previous 
school year and the current school year, if positive.
SECTION  2124 .  119.23 (4) (bg) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
119.23 (4) (bg) 7.  If the pupil described in subd. 6. is enrolled in a private 
school that enrolls pupils under the program in any grade between kindergarten to 
8 and also in any grade between 9 to 12, the state superintendent shall substitute 
for the amount described in subd. 6. the amount determined under subd. 4. a. to d., 
with the following modifications:
a.  Multiply the number of pupils participating in the program who are 
enrolled in the private school in any grade between kindergarten to 8 by the sum of 
the maximum amount per pupil the state superintendent paid a private school 
under this section in the previous school year for the grade in which the pupil is 
enrolled; the amount of the per pupil revenue adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for 
the current school year, if positive; and the change in the per pupil amount under s. 
115.437 (2) (a) 1. between the previous school year and the current school year, if 
positive.
b.  Multiply the number of pupils participating in the program who are 
enrolled in the private school in any grade between 9 to 12 by the sum of the 
maximum amount per pupil the state superintendent paid a private school under 
this section in the previous school year for the grade in which the pupil is enrolled; 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1281 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2124
the amount of the per pupil revenue adjustment under s. 121.91 (2m) for the 
current school year, if positive; and the change in the per pupil amount under s. 
115.437 (2) (a) 1. between the previous school year and the current school year, if 
positive.
SECTION  2125 .  119.23 (4v) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
119.23 (4v) (b)  If the department considers a pupil as a resident of the city 
under par. (a) for a school year, the department shall ensure that the pupil is not 
counted for that school year for purposes of determining whether a school district 
has exceeded its pupil participation limit under s. 118.60 (2) (be) and that the pupil 
is not counted for that school year for purposes of determining whether a program 
cap under sub. (2) (b) or s. 118.60 (2) (bh) 2. a. or b. has been exceeded.
SECTION  2126 .  119.23 (4v) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
119.23 (4v) (c)  The department may consider a pupil enrolled in a private 
school participating in the program under this section who satisfies all of the 
following as a resident of a school district, other than a 1st class city school district, 
who is enrolled in the private school under this section:
1.  The pupil was a resident of the city when the pupil applied to participate in 
the program under this section.
2.  The pupil accepted a space at a private school participating in the program 
under this section as a resident of the city.
3.  The pupil resides in a school district, other than a 1st class city school 
district, on the 3rd Friday in September.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1282 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2126
4.  The private school at which the pupil accepted a space under this section is 
participating in the program under s. 118.60.
SECTION  2127 .  119.23 (4v) (d) of the statutes is created to read:
119.23 (4v) (d)  If the department considers a pupil as a resident of an eligible 
school district, as defined in s. 118.60 (1) (am), under par. (c) for a school year, the 
department shall ensure that the pupil is not counted for that school year for 
purposes of determining whether a program cap under sub. (2) (b) or s. 118.60 (2) 
(bh) 2. a. has been exceeded.
SECTION  2128 .  119.23 (4v) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
119.23 (4v) (e)  If the department considers a pupil as a resident of a school 
district, other than an eligible school district, as defined in s. 118.60 (1) (am), or a 
1st class city school district, under par. (c) for a school year, the department shall 
ensure that the pupil is not counted for that school year for purposes of determining 
whether the school district has exceeded its pupil participation limit under s. 
118.60 (2) (be) and that the pupil is not counted for that school year for purposes of 
determining whether a program cap under sub. (2) (b) or s. 118.60 (2) (bh) 2. b. has 
been exceeded.
SECTION  2129 .  119.23 (7) (g) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
119.23 (7) (g) 1.  By the first day of the 3rd month beginning after the month in 
which the department establishes the model management plan and practices for 
maintaining indoor environmental quality in public and private schools under s. 
118.075 (3), or by October 1 of a private school [s first school year of participation in 
the program under this section, whichever is later, the private school shall provide 
for the development of a plan for maintaining indoor environmental quality in the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1283 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2129
private school.  Beginning on October 1, 2026, each private school shall include in 
the private school [s plan under this subdivision a requirement to provide and 
maintain a carbon monoxide detector, as defined in s. 101.149 (1) (am), in each room 
of the private school that contains a fuel-burning, forced-air furnace or a boiler, and 
as otherwise required by the department of safety and professional services or a 
person certified under s. 101.12 (4) or 101.14 (4r).
SECTION  2130 .  119.23 (7) (g) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
119.23 (7) (g) 2.  By the first day of the 12th month beginning after the month 
in which the department establishes the model management plan and practices for 
maintaining indoor environmental quality in public and private schools under s. 
118.075 (3), or by the beginning of the 2nd school year of participation in the 
program under this section, whichever is later, the private school shall implement a 
plan for maintaining indoor environmental quality in the private school.  By July 1, 
2027, or by the beginning of the 2nd school year of participation in the program 
under this section, whichever is later, the private school shall provide a carbon 
monoxide detector, as defined in s. 101.149 (1) (am), in each room of the private 
school that contains a fuel-burning, forced-air furnace or a boiler, and as otherwise 
required by the department of safety and professional services or a person certified 
under s. 101.12 (4) or 101.14 (4r) and reasonably maintain every carbon monoxide 
detector in the private school in the manner specified in the instructions for the 
carbon monoxide detector.
SECTION  2131 .  120.12 (15) of the statutes is amended to read:
120.12 (15)  SCHOOL  HOURS .  Establish rules scheduling the hours of a normal 
school day.  The school board may differentiate between the various elementary and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1284 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2131
high school grades in scheduling the school day.  This subsection does not eliminate 
a school district [s duty under subch. IV of ch. 111 to bargain with its employees [ 
collective bargaining representative over any calendaring proposal which is 
primarily related to wages, hours, or conditions of employment.
SECTION  2132 .  120.13 (2) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
120.13 (2) (g)  Every self-insured plan under par. (b) shall comply with ss. 
49.493 (3) (d), 631.89, 631.90, 631.93 (2), 632.722, 632.729, 632.746 (10) (a) 2. and 
(b) 2., 632.747 (3), 632.7498, 632.798, 632.848, 632.85, 632.851, 632.853, 632.855, 
632.861, 632.862, 632.867, 632.87 (4) to (6) (8), 632.871, 632.885, 632.89, 632.891, 
632.895 (9) to (17), 632.896, and 767.513 (4).
SECTION  2133 .  120.18 (1) (gm) of the statutes is amended to read:
120.18 (1) (gm)  Payroll and related benefit costs for all school district 
employees in the previous school year.  Payroll costs Costs for represented 
employees shall be based upon the costs of wages of any collective bargaining 
agreements covering such employees for the previous school year.  If, as of the time 
specified by the department for filing the report, the school district has not entered 
into a collective bargaining agreement for any portion of the previous school year 
with the recognized or certified representative of any of its employees, increased 
costs of wages reflected in the report shall be equal to the maximum wage 
expenditure that is subject to collective bargaining under s. 111.70 (4) (mb) 2. for 
the employees limited to the lower of the school district [s offer or the 
representative [s offer.  The school district shall amend the annual report to reflect 
any change in such costs as a result of any collective bargaining agreement entered 
into between the date of filing the report and October 1.  Any such amendment shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1285 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2133
be concurred in by the certified public accountant licensed or certified under ch. 442 
certifying the school district audit.
SECTION  2134 .  121.004 (7) (c) 1. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.004 (7) (c) 1. a.  A pupil enrolled in a  5-year-old kindergarten program 
that requires full-day attendance by the pupil for 5 days a week, but not on any day 
of the week that pupils enrolled in other grades in the school do not attend school, 
for an entire school term shall be counted as one pupil.
SECTION  2135 .  121.004 (7) (c) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.004 (7) (c) 2.  In subd. 1. a. and b., Xfull-dayY means the length of the 
school day for pupils in the first grade of the school district operating the 4-year-old 
or 5-year-old kindergarten program.
SECTION  2136 .  121.004 (7) (cm) of the statutes is amended to read:
121.004 (7) (cm)  A pupil enrolled in a 4-year-old kindergarten program, 
including a 4-year-old kindergarten program being phased in under s. 118.14 (3) (b), 
that provides the required number of hours of direct pupil instruction under s. 
121.02 (1) (f) but requires less than full-day attendance by the pupil for 5 days a 
week shall be counted as 0.6 pupil if the program annually provides at least 87.5 
additional hours of outreach activities.  In this paragraph, Xfull-dayY has the 
meaning given in par. (c) 2.
SECTION  2137 .  121.02 (1) (im) of the statutes is created to read:
121.02 (1) (im)  Provide period products to any pupil who needs them while at 
school, at no charge to the pupil.
SECTION  2138 .  121.02 (1) (L) 9. of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1286 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2138
121.02 (1) (L) 9.  Make available to pupils in grades 9 to 12 at least one 
computer science course that includes concepts in computer programming or 
coding.
SECTION  2139 .  121.105 (2) (am) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.105 (2) (am) 1.  Except as provided in subd. 2., if a school district would 
receive less in state aid in the current school year before any adjustment is made 
under s. 121.15 (4) (b) than an amount equal to 85 90 percent of the amount of state 
aid that it received in the previous school year, as adjusted under s. 121.15 (4) (b) in 
the current school year, its state aid for the current school year shall be increased to 
an amount equal to 85 90 percent of the state aid received in the previous school 
year.
SECTION  2140 .  121.105 (2) (am) 2. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
121.105 (2) (am) 2. (intro.)  If a school district from which territory was 
detached to create a new school district under s. 117.105 would receive in state aid 
in the school year beginning on the first July 1 following the effective date of the 
reorganization less than 85 90 percent of the amount determined as follows, its 
state aid in the school year beginning on the first July 1 following the effective date 
of the reorganization shall be increased to an amount equal to 85 90 percent of the 
amount determined as follows:
SECTION  2141 .  121.58 (2) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.58 (2) (a) 4.  For each pupil so transported whose residence is more than 
12 miles from the school attended, $300 $400 per school year in the 2016-17 school 
year and $365 for the 2020-21 2024-25 school year.  The amount for the 2021-22 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1287 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2141
school year and the 2022-23 school year is $375.  The amount for each school year 
thereafter is $400 $450.
SECTION  2142 .  121.59 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
121.59 (2) (a)  Divide the statewide school district transportation costs in the 
previous school year by the statewide membership in the previous school year and 
multiply the quotient by 1.4 1.35.
SECTION  2143 .  121.84 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
121.84 (4) (b)  If a pupil attends school in a school district outside the pupil [s 
school district of residence under par. (a), s. 118.51 (12) (b), (14), (16), and (17) apply 
to the pupil as if the pupil were attending school in a nonresident school district 
under s. 118.51.  If the pupil is rejected as a result of s. 118.51 (12) (b), s. 118.51 (9) 
applies.
SECTION  2144 .  121.90 (2) (am) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.90 (2) (am) 2.  Amounts under ss. 79.095 (4) and, 79.096, 79.0965, and 
79.098 for the current school year, not including payments received under s. 79.096 
(3), 79.0965 (3), or 79.098 (3) for a tax incremental district that has been 
terminated.
SECTION  2145 .  121.905 (1) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
121.905 (1)  In this section, Xrevenue ceiling Y means $10,000 in the 2021-22 
and 2022-23 school years, $11,000 in the 2023-24 and 2024-25 school years, $12,000 
in the 2025-26 school year, and $12,400 in the 2026 27 school year and in any 
subsequent school year.
SECTION  2146 .  121.905 (3) (c) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.905 (3) (c) 6.  For the limit for each of the 2015-16 to 2018-19 school years, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1288 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2146
and for the 2021-22 school year, and for any school year thereafter, make no 
adjustment to the result under par. (b).
SECTION  2147 .  121.905 (3) (c) 9. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.905 (3) (c) 9.  For the limit for 2023-2425, add $325 the amount under s. 
121.91 (2m) (j) 2m. to the result under par. (b).
SECTION  2148 .  121.91 (2m) (j) 2. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2149 .  121.91 (2m) (j) 2m. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.91 (2m)  (j) 2m.  In 2023-2425, add $146 $325, in the 2023-24 to 2025-26 
school years and beginning in the 2026-27 school year, add the amount under this 
subdivision in the previous school year by the sum of 1.0 plus the allowable rate of 
increase under s. 73.0305 expressed as a decimal.
SECTION  2150 .  121.91 (2m) (j) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.91 (2m)  (j) 3.  Multiply the result under subd. 2. or 2m., whichever is 
applicable, by the average of the number of pupils enrolled in the current school 
year and the 2 preceding school years.
SECTION  2151 .  121.91 (2m) (r) 1. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.91 (2m)  (r) 1. b.  Add an amount equal to the amount of revenue increase 
per pupil allowed under this subsection for the previous school year multiplied by 
the sum of 1.0 plus the allowable rate of increase under s. 73.0305 expressed as a 
decimal to the result under subd. 1. a., except that in calculating the limit for the 
2013-14 school year and the 2014-15 school year, add $75 to the result under subd. 
1. a., in calculating the limit for the 2019-20 school year, add $175 to the result 
under subd. 1. a., in calculating the limit for the 2020-21 school year, add $179 to 
the result under subd. 1. a., and in calculating the limit for the 2023-24 school year 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1289 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2151
and the 2024-25 each school year, add $325 thereafter, add the amount under par. 
(j) 2m. for that school year to the result under subd. 1. a.  In the 2015-16 to 2018-19 
school years, the 2021-22 school year, and the 2022-23 school year, the 2025-26 
school year, and any school year thereafter, make no adjustment to the result under 
subd. 1. a.
SECTION  2152 .  121.91 (2m) (s) 1. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.91 (2m)  (s) 1. b.  Add an amount equal to the amount of revenue increase 
per pupil allowed under this subsection for the previous school year multiplied by 
the sum of 1.0 plus the allowable rate of increase under s. 73.0305 expressed as a 
decimal to the result under subd. 1. a., except that in calculating the limit for the 
2013-14 school year and the 2014-15 school year, add $75 to the result under subd. 
1. a., in calculating the limit for the 2019-20 school year, add $175 to the result 
under subd. 1. a., in calculating the limit for the 2020-21 school year, add $179 to 
the result under subd. 1. a., and in calculating the limit for the 2023-24 school year 
and the 2024-25 each school year, add $325 thereafter, add the amount under par. 
(j) 2m. for that school year to the result under subd. 1. a.  In the 2015-16 to 2018-19 
school years, the 2021-22 school year, and the 2022-23 school year, the 2025-26 
school year, and any school year thereafter, make no adjustment to the result under 
subd. 1. a.
SECTION  2153 .  121.91 (4) (p) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
121.91 (4) (p) 1.  The limit otherwise applicable to a school district under sub. 
(2m) in any school year is increased by the amount of any reduction to that school 
district[s state aid payment made under s. 118.51 (16) (b) 2. and (c) or (17) (c) 2. or 
(cm) 2. or s. 118.51 (17) (cm) 2., 2023 stats., in the previous school year for a pupil 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1290 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2153
who was not included in the calculation of the number of pupils enrolled in that 
school district in the previous school year.
SECTION  2154 .  125.025 (5) of the statutes is created to read:
125.025 (5)  FEES.  All fees collected by the division in connection with permits 
issued under this chapter, including permit fees and other associated 
administrative fees, shall be credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.566 
(9) (g).
SECTION  2155 .  125.06 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
125.06 (6)  PUBLIC  PARKS .  The sale of fermented malt beverages and wine in 
any public park operated by a county or municipality.  Fermented malt beverages 
and wine shall be sold by officers or employees of the county or municipality under 
an ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation enacted by the governing body.
SECTION  2156 .  125.07 (4) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
125.07 (4) (d)  A person who is under 17 years of age a minor on the date of 
disposition is subject to s. 938.344 unless proceedings have been instituted against 
the person in a court of civil or criminal jurisdiction after dismissal of the citation 
under s. 938.344 (3).
SECTION  2157 .  125.07 (4) (e) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
125.07 (4) (e) 1.  In this paragraph, Xdefendant Y means a person found guilty 
of violating par. (a) or (b) who is 17, 18, 19 or 20 an adult under 21 years of age.
SECTION  2158 .  125.085 (3) (bt) of the statutes is amended to read:
125.085 (3) (bt)  A person who is under 17 years of age a minor on the date of 
disposition is subject to s. 938.344 unless proceedings have been instituted against 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1291 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2158
the person in a court of civil or criminal jurisdiction after dismissal of the citation 
under s. 938.344 (3).
SECTION  2159 .  125.09 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
125.09 (6)  MUNICIPAL  STORES  SALES .  No municipality may engage in the sale 
of alcohol beverages, except as authorized under s. ss. 125.06 (6) and 125.26 (6).  
This subsection does not apply to municipal stores in operation on November 6, 
1969.
SECTION  2160 .  125.28 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
125.28 (4)  The amount of the permit fee shall be established by the division 
and shall be an amount that is sufficient to fund one special agent position 
dedicated to alcohol and tobacco enforcement in the division, but the permit fee but 
may not exceed $2,500 per year or fractional part thereof.  All permit fees received 
under this subsection shall be credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.566 
(1) (hd).
SECTION  2161 .  125.535 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
125.535 (2)  ANNUAL  PERMIT  FEE.  The division may, by rule, establish an 
annual fee, not to exceed $100, for each permit issued under this section.  All fees 
collected under this subsection shall be credited to the appropriation account under 
s. 20.566 (1) (ha).
SECTION  2162 .  125.69 (4) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
125.69 (4) (e)  Costs.   The cost of administering this subsection shall be 
charged to the manufacturer, rectifier and wholesaler permittees.  The division 
shall determine the costs and shall establish the procedure for apportioning the 
cost against the permittees and provide for the method of payment to the division.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1292 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2162
All moneys collected by the division under this paragraph shall be credited to the 
appropriation account under s. 20.566 (9) (g).
SECTION  2163 .  139.06 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
139.06 (1) (a)  The taxes imposed under s. 139.03 (intro.) on intoxicating liquor 
at the rates under s. 139.03 (2m) shall be paid to, and a monthly return filed with, 
the department of revenue on or before the 15th of the month following the month 
in which the tax liability is incurred.  An administrative fee of 11 cents per gallon on 
intoxicating liquor taxed at the rates under s. 139.03 (2m) is imposed, shall be paid 
along with the taxes and shall be deposited in credited to the appropriation under s. 
20.566 (1) (ha) (9) (g).
SECTION  2164 .  139.44 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
139.44 (4)  Any person who refuses to permit the examination or inspection 
authorized in s. 139.39 (2) or 139.83 (1) may be fined not more than $500 or 
imprisoned not more than 90 days or both.  Such refusal shall be cause for 
immediate suspension or revocation of permit by the secretary.
SECTION  2165 .  Subchapter III (title) of chapter 139 [precedes 139.75] of the 
statutes is amended to read:
CHAPTER 139
SUBCHAPTER III 
TOBACCO PRODUCTS TAX AND 
VAPOR PRODUCTS TAXES
SECTION  2166 .  139.75 (4t) of the statutes is created to read:
139.75 (4t)  XLittle cigar Y means a cigar that has an integrated cellulose 
acetate filter and is wrapped in a substance containing tobacco.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1293 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2167
SECTION  2167 .  139.75 (12) of the statutes is amended to read:
139.75 (12)  XTobacco products Y means cigars; little cigars; pipe tobacco; 
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready-rubbed and other 
smoking tobacco; snuff, including moist snuff; snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist 
tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, 
cuttings and sweepings of tobacco and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in 
such manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or both 
for chewing and smoking; but Xtobacco products Y does not include cigarettes, as 
defined under s. 139.30 (1m).
SECTION  2168 .  139.75 (14) of the statutes is renumbered 139.75 (14) (a) and 
amended to read:
139.75 (14) (a)  XVapor product Y means a noncombustible product that 
produces vapor or aerosol for inhalation from the application of a heating element to 
a liquid or other substance that is depleted as the product is used, regardless of 
whether the liquid or other substance contains nicotine, which may or may not 
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic circuit, or 
other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of shape or size, that 
can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other substance.
SECTION  2169 .  139.75 (14) (b) and (c) of the statutes are created to read:
139.75 (14) (b)  XVapor product Y includes all of the following:
1.  An electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, 
or similar product or device.
2.  Any cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which 
may or may not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1294 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2169
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or 
device.
(c)  XVapor product Y does not include a product regulated as a drug or device 
under sections 501 to 524A of the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 USC 351 
to 360n-1.
SECTION  2170 .  139.76 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
139.76 (1)  Except as provided in sub. subs. (1p) and (1t), an excise tax is 
imposed upon the sale, offering or exposing for sale, possession with intent to sell or 
removal for consumption or sale or other disposition for any purpose of tobacco 
products by any person engaged as a distributor of them at the rate, for tobacco 
products, not including moist snuff, vapor products, cigars, little cigars, and pipe 
tobacco, of 71 percent of the manufacturer [s established list price to distributors 
without diminution by volume or other discounts on domestic products and, for 
moist snuff, at the rate of 100 percent of the manufacturer [s established list price to 
distributors without diminution by volume or other discounts on domestic products.  
On tobacco products imported from another country, not including moist snuff, 
vapor products, cigars, little cigars, and pipe tobacco, the rate of tax is 71 percent of 
the amount obtained by adding the manufacturer [s list price to the federal tax, 
duties and transportation costs to the United States.  On moist snuff imported from 
another country, the rate of the tax is 100 percent of the amount obtained by adding 
the manufacturer [s list price to the federal tax, duties, and transportation costs to 
the United States.  Except as provided in sub. (1p), the tax attaches at the time the 
tobacco products are received by the distributor in this state.  The tax shall be 
passed on to the ultimate consumer of the tobacco products.  All tobacco products 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1295 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2170
received in this state for sale or distribution within this state, except tobacco 
products actually sold as provided in sub. (2), shall be subject to such tax.
SECTION  2171 .  139.76 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
139.76 (1m)   An excise tax is imposed upon the sale, offering or exposing for 
sale, possession with intent to sell or removal for consumption or sale or other 
disposition for any purpose of vapor products by any person engaged as a 
distributor of them at the rate of  5 cents per milliliter of the liquid or other 
substance based on the volume as listed by the manufacturer and at a proportionate 
rate for any other quantity or fractional part thereof 71 percent of the 
manufacturer [s established list price to distributors without diminution by volume 
or other discounts on domestic products.  On vapor products imported from another 
country, the rate of tax is 71 percent of the amount obtained by adding the 
manufacturer [s list price to the federal tax, duties, and transportation costs to the 
United States.  The tax attaches at the time the vapor products are received by the 
distributor in this state.  The tax shall be passed on to the ultimate consumer of the 
vapor products.  All vapor products received in this state for sale or distribution 
within this state, except those actually sold as provided in sub. (2), shall be subject 
to such tax.
SECTION  2172 .  139.76 (1p) of the statutes is amended to read:
139.76 (1p)  An excise tax is imposed upon the sale, offering or exposing for 
sale, possession with intent to sell, or removal for consumption or sale or other 
disposition for any purpose of cigars, not including little cigars, and pipe tobacco by 
any person engaged as a distributor or remote retail seller of them at the rate of 71 
percent of the actual cost to the distributor or remote retail seller.  The tax imposed 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1296 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2172
under this subsection on cigars, except little cigars, shall not exceed an amount 
equal to 50 cents for each cigar.  The tax attaches at the time the cigars or pipe 
tobacco are received by the distributor in this state, except that for cigars and pipe 
tobacco sold by a remote retail seller, the tax attaches at the time the remote retail 
seller makes a remote retail sale of cigars or pipe tobacco to a consumer.  The tax 
shall be passed on to the ultimate consumer of the cigars and pipe tobacco.  All 
cigars, not including little cigars, and pipe tobacco received in this state for sale or 
distribution within this state, except tobacco products actually sold as provided in 
sub. (2), shall be subject to such tax.
SECTION  2173 .  139.76 (1t) of the statutes is created to read:
139.76 (1t)  An excise tax is imposed upon the sale, offering or exposing for 
sale, possession with intent to sell, or removal for consumption or sale or other 
disposition for any purpose of little cigars by any person engaged as a distributor or 
remote retail seller of them at the rate of 126 mills on each little cigar, regardless of 
weight.  The tax attaches at the time the little cigars are received by the distributor 
in this state, except that for little cigars sold by a remote retail seller, the tax 
attaches at the time the remote retail seller makes a remote retail sale of little 
cigars to a consumer.  The tax shall be passed on to the ultimate consumer of the 
little cigars.  All little cigars received in this state for sale or distribution within this 
state, except those actually sold as provided in sub. (2), shall be subject to such tax.  
To evidence payment of the tax imposed under this subsection on little cigars, the 
department shall provide stamps.  A person who has paid the tax shall affix stamps 
of the proper denomination to each package in which little cigars are packed, prior 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1297 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2173
to the first sale within this state.  Section 139.32, as it applies to the tax under s. 
139.31, applies to the tax imposed under this subsection on little cigars.
SECTION  2174 .  139.77 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
139.77 (1)  On or before the 15th day of each month, every distributor with a 
place of business in this state shall file a return showing the quantity, including 
milliliters in the case of a vapor product, and taxable price of each tobacco product 
or vapor product brought, or caused to be brought, into this state for sale; or made, 
manufactured or fabricated in this state for sale in this state, during the preceding 
month.  Every distributor outside this state shall file a return showing the quantity, 
including milliliters in the case of a vapor product, and taxable price of each tobacco 
product or vapor product shipped or transported to retailers in this state to be sold 
by those retailers during the preceding month.  At the time that the return is filed, 
the distributor shall pay the tax.
SECTION  2175 .  139.78 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
139.78 (1)  Except as provided in sub. subs. (1p) and (1t), a tax is imposed upon 
the use or storage by consumers of tobacco products in this state at the rate, for 
tobacco products, not including moist snuff, vapor products, cigars, little cigars, and 
pipe tobacco, of 71 percent of the cost of the tobacco products and, for moist snuff, at 
the rate of 100 percent of the manufacturer [s established list price to distributors 
without diminution by volume or other discounts on domestic products. The tax 
imposed under this subsection on cigars, except little cigars, shall not exceed an 
amount equal to 50 cents for each cigar.  The tax does not apply if the tax imposed 
by s. 139.76 (1) on the tobacco products has been paid or if the tobacco products are 
exempt from the tobacco products tax under s. 139.76 (2).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1298 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2176
SECTION  2176 .  139.78 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
139.78 (1m)   A tax is imposed upon the use or storage by consumers of vapor 
products in this state at the rate of  5 cents per milliliter of the liquid or other 
substance based on the volume as listed by the manufacturer and at a proportionate 
rate for any other quantity or fractional part thereof 71 percent of the 
manufacturer [s established list price to distributors without diminution by volume 
or other discounts on domestic products.  The tax does not apply if the tax imposed 
by s. 139.76 (1m) on the vapor products has been paid or if the vapor products are 
exempt from the vapor products tax under s. 139.76 (2).
SECTION  2177 .  139.78 (1p) of the statutes is amended to read:
139.78 (1p)  A tax is imposed upon the use or storage by consumers of cigars, 
not including little cigars, and pipe tobacco in this state at the rate and basis under 
s. 139.76 (1p).  The tax does not apply if the tax imposed by s. 139.76 (1p) on the 
cigars or pipe tobacco has been paid or if the cigars or pipe tobacco are exempt from 
the tax under s. 139.76 (2).
SECTION  2178 .  139.78 (1t) of the statutes is created to read:
139.78 (1t)  A tax is imposed and levied upon the use or storage of little cigars 
in this state by any person for any purpose.  The tax is levied and shall be collected 
at the same rate as provided for in s. 139.76 (1t).  The tax under this subsection does 
not apply if the tax imposed by s. 139.76 (1t) has been paid or if the little cigars are 
exempt from tax under s. 139.76 (2).
SECTION  2179 .  139.83 of the statutes is renumbered 139.83 (1).
SECTION  2180 .  139.83 (2) of the statutes is created to read:
139.83 (2)  Sections 139.315, 139.32, 139.321, 139.322, 139.34, 139.35, 139.36, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1299 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2180
139.362, 139.363, 139.38, 139.395, 139.41, 139.42, 139.43, and 139.44 (8), as they 
apply to the taxes under subch. II, apply to the administration and enforcement of 
this subchapter for little cigars.
SECTION  2181 .  Subchapter IV of chapter 139 [precedes 139.97] of the statutes 
is created to read:
CHAPTER 139
SUBCHAPTER IV
MARIJUANA TAX AND REGULATION
139.97   Definitions.   In this subchapter:
(1)  XDepartment Y means the department of revenue.
(2)  XLotY means a definite quantity of marijuana or usable marijuana 
identified by a lot number, every portion or package of which is consistent with the 
factors that appear in the labeling.
(3)  XLot number Y means a number that specifies the person that holds a valid 
permit under this subchapter and the harvesting or processing date for each lot.
(4)  XMarijuana Y has the meaning given in s. 961.70 (2).
(5)  XMarijuana distributor Y means a person in this state that purchases or 
receives usable marijuana from a marijuana processor and that sells or otherwise 
transfers the usable marijuana to a marijuana retailer for the purpose of resale to 
consumers.
(6)  XMarijuana processor Y means a person in this state that processes 
marijuana into usable marijuana, packages and labels usable marijuana for sale in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1300 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
retail outlets, and sells at wholesale or otherwise transfers usable marijuana to 
marijuana distributors.
(7)  XMarijuana producer Y means a person in this state that produces 
marijuana and sells it at wholesale or otherwise transfers it to marijuana 
processors.
(8)  XMarijuana retailer Y means a person in this state that sells usable 
marijuana at a retail outlet.
(9)  XMicrobusiness Y means a marijuana producer that produces marijuana in 
one area that is less than 10,000 square feet and that also operates as any 2 of the 
following:
(a)  A marijuana processor.
(b)  A marijuana distributor.
(c)  A marijuana retailer.
(10)  XPermittee Y means a marijuana producer, marijuana processor, 
marijuana distributor, marijuana retailer, or microbusiness that is issued a permit 
under s. 139.972.
(11)  XRetail outlet Y means a location for the retail sale of usable marijuana.
(12)  XSales price Y has the meaning given in s. 77.51 (15b).
(13)  XUsable marijuana Y means marijuana that has been processed for 
human consumption and includes dried marijuana flowers, marijuana-infused 
products, and marijuana edibles.
139.971   Marijuana tax.   (1) (a)  An excise tax is imposed on a marijuana 
producer at the rate of 15 percent of the sales price on each wholesale sale or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1301 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
transfer in this state of marijuana to a marijuana processor.  This paragraph 
applies to a microbusiness that transfers marijuana to a processing operation 
within the microbusiness.
(b)  An excise tax is imposed on a marijuana retailer at the rate of 10 percent of 
the sales price on each retail sale in this state of usable marijuana, except that the 
tax does not apply to sales of usable marijuana to an individual who holds a valid 
tax exemption certificate issued under s. 73.17 (4).
(2)  Each person liable for the taxes imposed under sub. (1) shall pay the taxes 
to the department no later than the 15th day of the month following the month in 
which the person [s tax liability is incurred and shall include with the payment a 
return on a form prescribed by the department.
(3)  For purposes of this section, a marijuana producer may not sell marijuana 
directly to a marijuana distributor or marijuana retailer, and a marijuana retailer 
may purchase usable marijuana for resale only from a marijuana distributor.  This 
subsection does not apply to a microbusiness that transfers marijuana or usable 
marijuana to another operation within the microbusiness.
139.972   Permits required.   (1) (a)  No person may operate in this state as a 
marijuana producer, marijuana processor, marijuana distributor, marijuana 
retailer, or microbusiness without first filing an application for and obtaining the 
proper permit from the department to perform such operations.  In addition, no 
person may operate in this state as a marijuana producer or marijuana processor 
without first filing an application for and obtaining the proper permit under s. 
94.56.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1302 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
(b)  This section applies to all officers, directors, agents, and stockholders 
holding 5 percent or more of the stock of any corporation applying for a permit 
under this section.
(c)  Subject to ss. 111.321, 111.322, and 111.335, the department may not issue 
a permit under this section to any person to which any of the following applies:
1.  The person has been convicted of a violent misdemeanor, as defined in s. 
941.29 (1g) (b), at least 3 times.
2.  The person has been convicted of a violent felony, as defined in s. 941.29 
(1g) (a), unless pardoned.
3.  During the preceding 3 years, the person has been committed under s. 
51.20 for being drug dependent.
4.  The person chronically and habitually uses alcohol beverages or other 
substances to the extent that their normal faculties are impaired.  A person is 
presumed to chronically and habitually use alcohol beverages or other substances to 
the extent that their normal faculties are impaired if, within the preceding 3 years, 
any of the following applies:
a.  The person has been committed for involuntary treatment under s. 51.45 
(13).
b.  The person has been convicted of a violation of s. 941.20 (1) (b).
c.  In 2 or more cases arising out of separate incidents, a court has found the 
person to have committed a violation of s. 346.63 or a local ordinance in conformity 
with s. 346.63; a violation of a law of a federally recognized American Indian tribe 
or band in this state in conformity with s. 346.63; or a violation of the law of another 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1303 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
jurisdiction, as defined in s. 340.01 (41m), that prohibits use of a motor vehicle 
while intoxicated, while under the influence of a controlled substance or a 
controlled substance analog or a combination thereof, with an excess or specified 
range of alcohol concentration, or while under the influence of any drug to a degree 
that renders the person incapable of safely driving, as those or substantially similar 
terms are used in that jurisdiction [s laws.
5.  The person has income that comes principally from gambling or has been 
convicted of 2 or more gambling offenses.
6.  The person has been convicted of crimes relating to prostitution.
7.  The person has been convicted of of crimes relating to loaning money or 
anything of value to persons holding licenses or permits pursuant to ch. 125.
8.  The person is under the age of 21.
9.  The person has not been a resident of this state continuously for at least 90 
days prior to the application date.
(cm)  An applicant with 20 or more employees may not receive a permit under 
this section to operate as a marijuana distributor or marijuana retailer unless the 
applicant certifies to the department that the applicant has entered into a labor 
peace agreement, as defined in s. 94.56 (1) (a), and will abide by the terms of the 
agreement as a condition of maintaining a valid permit under this section.  The 
applicant shall submit to the department a copy of the page of the labor peace 
agreement that contains the signatures of the labor organization representative 
and the applicant.
(cn)  The department shall use a competitive scoring system to determine 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1304 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
which applicants for a permit to operate as a marijuana retailer are eligible to 
receive that permit under this section.  The department shall issue permits to the 
highest scoring applicants that it determines will best protect the environment; 
provide stable, family-supporting jobs to local residents; ensure worker and 
consumer safety; operate secure facilities; and uphold the laws of the jurisdictions 
in which they operate.  The department shall, using criteria established by rule, 
score an applicant for a permit to operate as a marijuana retailer on the applicant [s 
ability to articulate a social equity plan related to the operation of a marijuana 
retail establishment.  The department may deny a permit to an applicant with a 
low score as determined under this paragraph.  The department may request that 
the applicant provide any information or documentation that the department 
deems necessary for purposes of making a determination under this paragraph.
(d) 1.  Before the department issues a new or renewed permit under this 
section, the department shall give notice of the permit application to the governing 
body of the municipality where the permit applicant intends to operate the 
premises of a marijuana producer, marijuana processor, marijuana distributor, 
marijuana retailer, or microbusiness.  No later than 30 days after the department 
submits the notice, the governing body of the municipality may file with the 
department a written objection to granting or renewing the permit.  At the 
municipality [s request, the department may extend the period for filing objections.
2.  A written objection filed under subd. 1. shall provide all the facts on which 
the objection is based.  In determining whether to grant or deny a permit for which 
an objection has been filed under this paragraph, the department shall give 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1305 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
substantial weight to objections from a municipality based on chronic illegal 
activity associated with the premises for which the applicant seeks a permit or the 
premises of any other operation in this state for which the applicant holds or has 
held a valid permit or license, the conduct of the applicant [s patrons inside or 
outside the premises of any other operation in this state for which the applicant 
holds or has held a valid permit or license, and local zoning ordinances.  In this 
subdivision, Xchronic illegal activity Y means a pervasive pattern of activity that 
threatens the public health, safety, and welfare of the municipality, including any 
crime or ordinance violation, and that is documented in crime statistics, police 
reports, emergency medical response data, calls for service, field data, or similar 
law enforcement agency records.
(e)  After denying a permit, the department shall immediately notify the 
applicant in writing of the denial and the reasons for the denial.  After making a 
decision to grant or deny a permit for which a municipality has filed an objection 
under par. (d), the department shall immediately notify the governing body of the 
municipality in writing of its decision and the reasons for the decision.
(f) 1.  The department [s denial of a permit under this section is subject to 
judicial review under ch. 227.
2.  The department [s decision to grant a permit under this section regardless 
of an objection filed under par. (d) is subject to judicial review under ch. 227.
(g)  The department may not issue a permit under this section to any person 
that does not hold a valid certificate under s. 73.03 (50).
(2)  Each person that applies for a permit under this section shall submit with 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1306 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
the application a $250 fee.  Each person that is granted a permit under this section 
shall annually pay to the department a $2,000 fee for as long as the person holds a 
valid permit under this section.  A permit issued under this section is valid for one 
year and may be renewed, except that the department may revoke or suspend a 
permit prior to its expiration.  A person is not entitled to a refund of the fees paid 
under this subsection if the person [s permit is denied, revoked, or suspended.
(3)  The department may not issue a permit under this section to operate any 
premises that is within 500 feet of the perimeter of the grounds of any elementary 
or secondary school, playground, recreation facility, child care facility, public park, 
public transit facility, or library.
(4)  Under this section, a separate permit is required for and issued to each 
class of permittee, and the permit holder may perform only the operations 
authorized by the permit.  A permit issued under this section is not transferable 
from one person to another or from one premises to another.  A separate permit is 
required for each place in this state where the operations of a marijuana producer, 
marijuana processor, marijuana distributor, marijuana retailer, or microbusiness 
occur, including each retail outlet.  No person that has been issued a permit to 
operate as a marijuana retailer, or that has any direct or indirect financial interest 
in the operation of a marijuana retailer, shall be issued a permit to operate as a 
marijuana producer, marijuana processor, or marijuana distributor.  A person that 
has been issued a permit to operate as a microbusiness is not required to hold 
separate permits to operate as a marijuana processor, marijuana distributor, or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1307 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
marijuana retailer, but shall specify on the person [s application for a microbusiness 
permit the activities that the person will be engaged in as a microbusiness.
(5)  Each person issued a permit under this section shall post the permit in a 
conspicuous place on the premises to which the permit relates.
139.973   Regulation.   (1) (a)  No permittee may employ an individual who is 
under the age of 21 to work in the business to which the permit relates.
(b)  Subject to ss. 111.321, 111.322, and 111.335, no permittee may employ an 
individual if any of the conditions under s. 139.972 (1) (c) 1. to 7. applies to the 
individual.
(2)  A retail outlet shall sell no products or services other than usable 
marijuana or paraphernalia intended for the storage or use of usable marijuana.
(3)  No marijuana retailer may allow a person who is under the age of 21 to 
enter or be on the premises of a retail outlet in violation of s. 961.71 (2m), unless 
that person is a qualifying patient, as defined in s. 73.17 (1) (d).
(4)  The maximum amount of usable marijuana that a retail outlet may sell to 
an individual consumer in a single transaction may not exceed a permissible 
amount, as defined in s. 961.70 (3).
(4m)  A marijuana retailer may not collect, retain, or distribute personal 
information regarding the retailer [s customers except that which is necessary to 
complete a sale of usable marijuana.
(5)  No marijuana retailer may display any signage in a window, on a door, or 
on the outside of the premises of a retail outlet that is visible to the general public 
from a public right-of-way, other than a single sign that is no larger than 1,600 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1308 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
square inches identifying the retail outlet by the permittee [s business or trade 
name.
(6)  No marijuana retailer may display usable marijuana in a manner that is 
visible to the general public from a public right-of-way.
(7)  No marijuana retailer or employee of a retail outlet may consume, or allow 
to be consumed, any usable marijuana on the premises of the retail outlet.
(7m)  A marijuana retailer may operate a retail outlet only between the hours 
of 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.
(8)  Except as provided under sub. (5), no marijuana producer, marijuana 
processor, marijuana distributor, marijuana retailer, or microbusiness may place or 
maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained, an advertisement of usable 
marijuana in any form or through any medium.
(9) (a)  On a schedule determined by the department, every marijuana 
producer, marijuana processor, and microbusiness shall submit representative 
samples of the marijuana and usable marijuana produced or processed by the 
marijuana producer, marijuana processor, or microbusiness to a testing laboratory 
registered under s. 94.57 for testing marijuana and usable marijuana in order to 
certify that the marijuana and usable marijuana comply with standards prescribed 
by the department by rule, including testing for potency and for mold, fungus, 
pesticides, and other contaminants.  The laboratory testing the sample shall 
destroy any part of the sample that remains after the testing.
(b)  Each marijuana producer, marijuana processor, and microbusiness shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1309 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
submit the results of the testing provided under par. (a) to the department in the 
manner prescribed by the department by rule.
(c)  If a representative sample tested under par. (a) does not meet the 
standards prescribed by the department, the department shall take the necessary 
action to ensure that the entire lot from which the sample was taken is destroyed.  
The department shall promulgate rules to determine lots and lot numbers for 
purposes of this subsection and for the reporting of lots and lot numbers to the 
department.
(10) (a)  A marijuana processor or a microbusiness that operates as a 
marijuana processor shall affix a label to all usable marijuana that the marijuana 
processor or microbusiness sells to marijuana distributors.  The label may not be 
designed to appeal to persons under the age of 18.  The label shall include all of the 
following:
1.  The ingredients and the tetrahydrocannabinols concentration in the usable 
marijuana.
2.  The processor [s business or trade name.
3.  The processor [s permit number.
4.  The harvest batch number of the marijuana.
5.  The harvest date.
6.  The strain name and product identity.
7.  The net weight.
8.  The activation time.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1310 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
9.  The name of the laboratory performing any test, the test batch number, and 
the test analysis dates.
10.  The logotype for recreational marijuana developed by the department of 
agriculture, trade and consumer protection under s. 100.145.
11.  Warnings about the risks of marijuana use and pregnancy and risks of 
marijuana use by persons under the age of 18.
(b)  No marijuana processor or microbusiness that operates as a marijuana 
processor may make usable marijuana using marijuana grown outside this state.  
The label on each package of usable marijuana may indicate that the usable 
marijuana is made in this state.
(11) (a)  No permittee may sell marijuana or usable marijuana that contains 
more than 3 parts tetrahydrocannabinols to one part cannabidiol.
(b)  No permittee may sell marijuana or usable marijuana that tests positive 
under sub. (9) (a) for mold, fungus, pesticides, or other contaminants if the 
contaminants, or level of contaminants, are identified by a testing laboratory to be 
potentially unsafe to the consumer.
(12)  Immediately after beginning employment with a permittee, every 
employee of a permittee shall receive training, approved by the department, on the 
safe handling of marijuana and usable marijuana and on security and inventory 
accountability procedures.
139.974   Records and reports.   (1)  Every permittee shall keep accurate and 
complete records of the permittee [s production and sales of marijuana and usable 
marijuana in this state.  The records shall be kept on the premises described in the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1311 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
permit and in such manner as to ensure permanency and accessibility for 
inspection at reasonable hours by the department [s authorized personnel.  The 
department shall prescribe reasonable and uniform methods of keeping records and 
making reports and shall provide the necessary forms to permittees.
(2)  If the department determines that a permittee [s records are not kept in 
the prescribed form or are in such condition that the department requires an 
unusual amount of time to determine from the records the amount of the tax due, 
the department shall give notice to the permittee that the permittee is required to 
revise the permittee [s records and keep them in the prescribed form.  If the 
permittee fails to comply within 30 days, the permittee shall pay the expenses 
reasonably attributable to a proper examination and tax determination at the rate 
of $30 a day for each auditor used to make the examination and determination.  The 
department shall send a bill for such expenses, and the permittee shall pay the 
amount of such bill within 10 days.
(3)  If a permittee fails to file a report when due, the permittee shall pay a late 
filing fee of $10.  A report that is mailed is filed on time if it is mailed in a properly 
addressed envelope with postage prepaid, the envelope is officially postmarked, or 
marked or recorded electronically as provided under section 7502 (f) (2) (c) of the 
Internal Revenue Code, on the date due, and the report is actually received by the 
department or at the destination that the department prescribes within 5 days of 
the due date.  A report that is not mailed is timely if it is received on or before the 
due date by the department or at the destination that the department prescribes.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1312 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
For purposes of this subsection, XmailedY includes delivery by a delivery service 
designated under section 7502 (f) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(4)  Sections 71.78 (1), (1m), and (4) to (9) and 71.83 (2) (a) 3. and 3m., relating 
to confidentiality of income, franchise, and gift tax returns, apply to any 
information obtained from any permittee under this subchapter on a tax return, 
report, schedule, exhibit, or other document or from an audit report relating to any 
of those documents, except that the department shall publish production and sales 
statistics.
139.975   Administration and enforcement.   (1)  The department shall 
administer and enforce this subchapter and promulgate rules necessary to 
administer and enforce this subchapter.
(2)  The duly authorized employees of the department have all necessary 
police powers to prevent violations of this subchapter.
(3)  Authorized personnel of the department of justice and the department of 
revenue, and any law enforcement officer, within their respective jurisdictions, may 
at all reasonable hours enter the premises of any permittee and examine the books 
and records to determine whether the tax imposed by this subchapter has been fully 
paid and may enter and inspect any premises where marijuana or usable marijuana 
is produced, processed, made, sold, or stored to determine whether the permittee is 
complying with this subchapter.
(4)  The department may suspend or revoke the permit of any permittee that 
violates s. 100.30, any provision of this subchapter, or any rule promulgated under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1313 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
sub. (1).  The department shall revoke the permit of any permittee that violates s. 
100.30 3 or more times within a 5-year period.
(5)  No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the collection 
or payment of the tax levied in s. 139.971.  The aggrieved taxpayer shall pay the tax 
when due and, if paid under protest, may at any time within 90 days from the date 
of payment sue the state to recover the tax paid.  If it is finally determined that any 
part of the tax was wrongfully collected, the secretary of administration shall pay 
the amount wrongfully collected.  A separate suit need not be filed for each separate 
payment made by any taxpayer, but a recovery may be had in one suit for as many 
payments as may have been made.
(6) (a)  Any person may be compelled to testify in regard to any violation of this 
subchapter of which the person may have knowledge, even though such testimony 
may tend to incriminate the person, upon being granted immunity from 
prosecution in connection with the testimony, and upon the giving of such 
testimony, the person shall not be prosecuted because of the violation relative to 
which the person has testified.
(b)  The immunity provided under par. (a) is subject to the restrictions under s. 
972.085.
(7)  The provisions on timely filing under s. 71.80 (18) apply to the tax imposed 
under this subchapter.
(8)  Sections 71.74 (1), (2), (10), (11), and (14), 71.77, 71.91 (1) (a) and (c) and 
(2) to (7), 71.92, and 73.0301 as they apply to the taxes under ch. 71 apply to the 
taxes under this subchapter.  Section 71.74 (13) as it applies to the collection of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1314 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
taxes under ch. 71 applies to the collection of the taxes under this subchapter, 
except that the period during which notice of an additional assessment shall be 
given begins on the due date of the report under this subchapter.
(9)  Any building or place of any kind where marijuana or usable marijuana is 
sold, possessed, stored, or manufactured without a lawful permit or in violation of s. 
139.972 or 139.973 is declared a public nuisance and may be closed and abated as 
such.
(10)  At the request of the secretary of revenue, the attorney general may 
represent this state or assist a district attorney in prosecuting any case arising 
under this subchapter.
139.976   Theft of tax moneys.   All marijuana tax moneys received by a 
permittee for the sale of marijuana or usable marijuana on which the tax under this 
subchapter has become due and has not been paid are trust funds in the permittee [s 
possession and are the property of this state.  Any permittee that fraudulently 
withholds, appropriates, or otherwise uses marijuana tax moneys that are the 
property of this state is guilty of theft under s. 943.20 (1), whether or not the 
permittee has or claims to have an interest in those moneys.
139.977   Seizure and confiscation.   (1)  All marijuana and usable 
marijuana produced, processed, made, kept, stored, sold, distributed, or 
transported in violation of this subchapter, and all tangible personal property used 
in connection with the marijuana or usable marijuana, is unlawful property and 
subject to seizure by the department or a law enforcement officer.  Except as 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1315 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
provided in sub. (2), all marijuana and usable marijuana seized under this 
subsection shall be destroyed.
(2)  If marijuana or usable marijuana on which the tax has not been paid is 
seized as provided under sub. (1), it may be given to law enforcement officers to use 
in criminal investigations or sold to qualified buyers by the department, without 
notice.  If the department finds that the marijuana or usable marijuana may 
deteriorate or become unfit for use in criminal investigations or for sale, or that 
those uses would otherwise be impractical, the department may order it destroyed.
(3)  If marijuana or usable marijuana on which the tax has been paid is seized 
as provided under sub. (1), it shall be returned to the true owner if ownership can be 
ascertained and the owner or the owner [s agent is not involved in the violation 
resulting in the seizure.  If the ownership cannot be ascertained or if the owner or 
the owner [s agent was guilty of the violation that resulted in the seizure of the 
marijuana or usable marijuana, it may be sold or otherwise disposed of as provided 
in sub. (2).
(4)  If tangible personal property other than marijuana or usable marijuana is 
seized as provided under sub. (1), the department shall advertise the tangible 
personal property for sale by publication of a class 2 notice under ch. 985.  If no 
person claiming a lien on, or ownership of, the property has notified the department 
of the person [s claim within 10 days after last insertion of the notice, the 
department shall sell the property.  If a sale is not practical, the department may 
destroy the property.  If a person claiming a lien on, or ownership of, the property 
notifies the department within the time prescribed in this subsection, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1316 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
department may apply to the circuit court in the county where the property was 
seized for an order directing disposition of the property or the proceeds from the 
sale of the property.  If the court orders the property to be sold, all liens, if any, may 
be transferred from the property to the sale proceeds.  Neither the property seized 
nor the proceeds from the sale shall be turned over to any claimant of lien or 
ownership unless the claimant first establishes that the property was not used in 
connection with any violation under this subchapter or that, if so used, it was done 
without the claimant [s knowledge or consent and without the claimant [s knowledge 
of facts that should have given the claimant reason to believe it would be put to such 
use.  If no claim of lien or ownership is established as provided under this 
subsection, the property may be ordered destroyed.
139.978   Interest and penalties.   (1)  Any person that makes or signs any 
false or fraudulent report under this subchapter or that attempts to evade the tax 
imposed by s. 139.971, or that aids in or abets the evasion or attempted evasion of 
that tax, may be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than 9 
months or both.
(2)  Any permittee that fails to keep the records required by s. 139.974 (1) and 
(2) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisoned not more 
than 6 months or both.
(3)  Any person that refuses to permit the examination or inspection 
authorized under s. 139.975 (3) may be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not 
more than 6 months or both.  The department shall immediately suspend or revoke 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1317 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
the permit of any person that refuses to permit the examination or inspection 
authorized under s. 139.975 (3).
(4)  Any person that violates any of the provisions of this subchapter for which 
no other penalty is prescribed shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than 
$1,000 or imprisoned not less than 10 days nor more than 90 days or both.
(5)  Any person that violates any of the rules promulgated in accordance with 
this subchapter shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisoned 
not more than 6 months or both.
(6)  In addition to the penalties imposed for violating the provisions of this 
subchapter or any of the department [s rules, the department shall revoke the 
permit of any person convicted of such a violation and not issue another permit to 
that person for a period of 2 years following the revocation.
(7)  Unpaid taxes under this subchapter bear interest at the rate of 12 percent 
per year from the due date of the return until paid or deposited with the 
department, and all refunded taxes bear interest at the rate of 3 percent per year 
from the due date of the return to the date on which the refund is certified on the 
refund rolls.
(8)  All nondelinquent payments of additional amounts owed under this 
subchapter shall be applied in the following order: penalties, interest, tax principal.
(9)  Delinquent marijuana taxes bear interest at the rate of 1.5 percent per 
month until paid.  The taxes imposed by this subchapter shall become delinquent if 
not paid by any of the following due dates, whichever is applicable:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1318 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2181
(a)  In the case of a timely filed return, no return filed, or a late return, on or 
before the due date of the return.
(b)  In the case of a deficiency determination of taxes, within 2 months after 
the date of demand.
(10)  If due to neglect an incorrect return is filed under this subchapter, the 
entire tax finally determined is subject to a penalty of 25 percent of the tax 
exclusive of interest or other penalty.  A person filing an incorrect return has the 
burden of proving that the error or errors were due to good cause and not due to 
neglect.
139.979   Personal use.   An individual who possesses no more than 6 
marijuana plants that have reached the flowering stage at any one time is not 
subject to the tax imposed under s. 139.971.  An individual who possesses more 
than 6 marijuana plants that have reached the flowering stage at any one time shall 
apply for the appropriate permit under s. 139.972 and pay the appropriate tax 
imposed under s. 139.971.
139.980   Agreement with tribes.   The department may enter into an 
agreement with a federally recognized American Indian tribe or band in this state 
for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter and to provide refunds of 
the tax imposed under s. 139.971 on marijuana sold on tribal land by or to enrolled 
members of the tribe or band residing on the tribal land.
SECTION  2182 .  145.20 (5) (a) of the statutes, as affected by 2017 Wisconsin 
Act 59, is amended to read:
145.20 (5) (a)  The department shall establish a maintenance program to be 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1319 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2182
administered by governmental units responsible for the regulation of private on-site 
wastewater treatment systems.  The department shall determine the private on-
site wastewater treatment systems to which the maintenance program applies.  At 
a minimum the maintenance program is applicable to all new or replacement 
private on-site wastewater treatment systems constructed in a governmental unit 
after the date on which the governmental unit adopts this program.  The 
department may apply the maintenance program by rule to private on-site 
wastewater treatment systems constructed in a governmental unit responsible for 
the regulation of private on-site wastewater treatment systems on or before the date 
on which the governmental unit adopts the program.  The department shall 
determine the private on-site wastewater treatment systems to which the 
maintenance program applies in governmental units that do not meet the 
conditions for eligibility under s. 145.246 (8).
SECTION  2183 .  145.20 (5) (am) of the statutes, as affected by 2017 Wisconsin 
Act 59, is amended to read:
145.20 (5) (am)  Each governmental unit responsible for the regulation of 
private on-site wastewater treatment systems shall adopt and begin the 
administration of the program established under par. (a) before October 1, 2019.  As 
part of adopting and administering the program, the governmental unit shall 
conduct and maintain an inventory of all the private on-site wastewater treatment 
systems located in the governmental unit and shall complete the initial inventory 
before October 1, 2017.  In order to be eligible for grant funding under s. 145.246, a 
governmental unit must comply with these deadlines.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1320 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
SECTION  2184 .  145.246 of the statutes is created to read:
145.246   Private on-site wastewater treatment system replacement or 
rehabilitation.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XDetermination of failure Y means any of the following:
1.  A determination that a private on-site wastewater treatment system is 
failing, according to the criteria under s. 145.01 (4m), based on an inspection of the 
private on-site wastewater treatment system by an employee of the state or a 
governmental unit who is certified to inspect private on-site wastewater treatment 
systems by the department.
2.  A written enforcement order issued under s. 145.02 (3) (f), 145.20 (2) (f), or 
281.19 (2).
3.  A written enforcement order issued under s. 254.59 (1) by a governmental 
unit.
(b)  XGovernmental unit Y means a governmental unit responsible for the 
regulation of private on-site wastewater treatment systems.  XGovernmental unit Y 
also includes a federally recognized American Indian tribe or band.
(c)  XIndian lands Y means lands owned by the United States and held for the 
use or benefit of Indian tribes or bands or individual Indians and lands within the 
boundaries of a federally recognized reservation that are owned by Indian tribes or 
bands or individual Indians.
(d)  XParticipating governmental unit Y means a governmental unit that 
applies to the department for financial assistance under sub. (7) and that meets the 
conditions specified under sub. (8).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1321 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
(e)  XPrincipal residence Y means a residence that is occupied at least 51 
percent of the year by the owner.
(f)  XSewageY means the water-carried wastes created in and to be conducted 
away from residences, industrial establishments, and public buildings, as defined 
in s. 101.01 (12), with such surface water or groundwater as may be present.
(g)  XSmall commercial establishment Y means a commercial establishment or 
business place with a maximum daily waste water flow rate of less than 5,000 
gallons per day.
(2)  C ATEGORIES  OF FAILING  PRIVATE  ON-SITE WASTEWATER  TREATMENT  
SYSTEMS .  For the purposes of this section, the department shall establish the 
category of each failing private on-site wastewater treatment system for which a 
grant application is submitted, as follows:
(a)  Category 1: failing private on-site wastewater treatment systems 
described in s. 145.01 (4m) (a) to (c).
(b)  Category 2: failing private on-site wastewater treatment systems 
described in s. 145.01 (4m) (d).
(c)  Category 3: failing private on-site wastewater treatment systems described 
in s. 145.01 (4m) (e).
(3)  ELIGIBILITY .  (a) 1.  A person is eligible for grant funds under this section 
if he or she owns a principal residence that is served by a category 1 or 2 failing 
private on-site wastewater treatment system, if the private on-site wastewater 
treatment system was installed at least 33 years before the person submits a grant 
application, if the family income of the person does not exceed the income 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1322 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
limitations under par. (c), if the amount of the grant determined under sub. (6) is at 
least $100, if the residence is not located in an area served by a sewer, and if 
determination of failure is made prior to the rehabilitation or replacement of the 
failing private on-site wastewater treatment system.
2.  A business is eligible for grant funds under this section if it owns a small 
commercial establishment that is served by a category 1 or 2 failing private on-site 
wastewater treatment system, if the private on-site wastewater treatment system 
was installed at least 33 years before the business submits a grant application, if 
the gross revenue of the business does not exceed the limitation under par. (d), if the 
small commercial establishment is not located in an area served by a sewer, and if a 
determination of failure is made prior to the rehabilitation or replacement of the 
private on-site wastewater treatment system.
3.  A person who owns a principal residence or small commercial 
establishment that is served by a category 1 or 2 failing private on-site wastewater 
treatment system may submit an application for grant funds during the 3-year 
period after the determination of failure is made.  Grant funds may be awarded 
after work is completed if rehabilitation or replacement of the system meets all 
requirements of this section and rules promulgated under this section.
(b)  Each principal residence or small commercial establishment may receive 
only one grant under this section.
(c) 1.  In order to be eligible for grant funds under this section, the annual 
family income of the person who owns the principal residence may not exceed 
$45,000.  Beginning July 1, 2026, and annually on July 1 thereafter, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1323 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
department shall adjust the dollar amount specified in this subdivision by an 
amount equal to that dollar amount multiplied by the percentage change in the U.S. 
consumer price index for urban wage earners and clerical workers, U.S. city 
average, for the prior year, rounded to the nearest dollar.  The department shall 
publish the dollar amounts on its website.  Notwithstanding s. 227.10, the adjusted 
dollar amounts need not be promulgated as rules under ch. 227.
2.  Except as provided under subd. 4., annual family income shall be based 
upon the federal adjusted gross income of the owner and the owner [s spouse, if any, 
as computed for the taxable year prior to the year in which the determination of 
failure is made.
3.  In order to be eligible for grant funds under this section, a person shall 
submit a copy of the federal income tax returns upon which the determination of 
federal adjusted gross income under subd. 2. was made together with any 
application required by the governmental unit.
4.  A governmental unit may disregard the federal income tax return that is 
submitted under subd. 3. and may determine annual family income based upon 
satisfactory evidence of federal adjusted gross income or projected federal adjusted 
gross income of the owner and the owner [s spouse in the current year.  The 
department shall promulgate rules establishing criteria for determining what 
constitutes satisfactory evidence of federal adjusted gross income or projected 
federal adjusted gross income in a current year.
(d) 1.  In order to be eligible for grant funds under this section, the annual 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1324 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
gross revenue of the business that owns the small commercial establishment may 
not exceed $362,500.
2.  Except as provided in subd. 4., annual gross revenue shall be based upon 
the gross revenue of the business for the taxable year prior to the year in which the 
determination of failure is made.  The department shall promulgate rules 
establishing criteria for determining what constitutes satisfactory evidence of gross 
revenue in a prior taxable year.
3.  In order to be eligible for grant funds under this section, a business shall 
submit documentation required by the department under subd. 2. together with 
any application required by the governmental unit.
4.  A governmental unit may disregard the documentation of gross revenue for 
the taxable year prior to the year in which the determination of failure is made and 
may determine annual gross revenue based upon satisfactory evidence of gross 
revenue of the business in the current year.  The department shall promulgate rules 
establishing criteria for determining what constitutes satisfactory evidence of gross 
revenue in a current year.
(e)  The department of revenue shall, upon request by the department, verify 
the income information submitted by an applicant or grant recipient.
(4)  DENIAL  OF APPLICATION .  (a)  The department or a governmental unit shall 
deny a grant application under this section if the applicant or a person who would 
be directly benefited by the grant intentionally caused the conditions that resulted 
in a category 1 or 2 failing private on-site wastewater treatment system.  The 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1325 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
department or governmental unit shall notify the applicant in writing of a denial, 
including the reason for the denial.
(b)  The department shall notify a governmental unit if an individual [s name 
appears on the statewide support lien docket under s. 49.854 (2) (b).  The 
department or a governmental unit shall deny an application under this section if 
the name of the applicant or an individual who would be directly benefited by the 
grant appears on the statewide support lien docket under s. 49.854 (2) (b), unless 
the applicant or individual who would be benefited by the grant provides to the 
department or governmental unit a payment agreement that has been approved by 
the county child support agency under s. 59.53 (5) and that is consistent with rules 
promulgated under s. 49.858 (2) (a).
(5)  USE OF FUNDS .  (a)  Except for grants under par. (b), funds available under 
a grant under this section shall be applied to the rehabilitation or replacement of 
the private on-site wastewater treatment system.  An existing private on-site 
wastewater treatment system may be replaced by an alternative private on-site 
wastewater treatment system or by a system serving more than one principal 
residence.
(b)  Funds available under a grant under this section for experimental private 
on-site wastewater treatment systems shall be applied to the installation and 
monitoring of the experimental private on-site wastewater treatment systems.
(6)  ALLOWABLE  COSTS ; STATE  SHARE .  (a)  Except as provided in par. (e), costs 
allowable in determining grant funding under this section may not exceed the costs 
of rehabilitating or replacing a private on-site wastewater treatment system that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1326 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
would be necessary to allow the rehabilitated system or new system to meet the 
minimum requirements of the state plumbing code promulgated under s. 145.02.
(b)  Except as provided in par. (e), costs allowable in determining grant 
funding under this section may not exceed the costs of rehabilitating or replacing a 
private on-site wastewater treatment system by the least costly methods, except 
that a holding tank may not be used as the measure of the least costly method for 
rehabilitating or replacing a private on-site wastewater treatment system other 
than a holding tank.
(c)  Except as provided in pars. (d) and (e), the state grant share under this 
section is limited to $7,000 for each principal residence or small commercial 
establishment to be served by the private on-site wastewater treatment system or to 
the amount determined by the department based upon private on-site wastewater 
treatment system grant funding tables, whichever is less.  The department shall 
prepare and publish private on-site wastewater treatment system grant funding 
tables that specify the maximum state share limitation for various components and 
costs involved in the rehabilitation or replacement of a private on-site wastewater 
treatment system based upon minimum size and other requirements specified in 
the state plumbing code promulgated under s. 145.02.  The maximum state share 
limitations shall be designed to pay approximately 60 percent of the average 
allowable cost of private on-site wastewater treatment system rehabilitation or 
replacement based upon estimated or actual costs of that rehabilitation or 
replacement.  The department shall revise the grant funding tables when it 
determines that 60 percent of current costs of private on-site wastewater treatment 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1327 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
system rehabilitation or replacement exceed the amounts in the grant funding 
tables by more than 10 percent, except that the department may not revise the 
grant funding tables more often than once every 2 years.
(d)  Except as provided in par. (e), if the income of a person who owns a 
principal residence that is served by a category 1 or 2 failing private on-site 
wastewater treatment system is greater than $32,000, the amount of the grant 
under this section is limited to the amount determined under par. (c) less 30 
percent of the amount by which the person [s income exceeds $32,000.
(e)  Costs allowable for experimental private on-site wastewater treatment 
systems shall include the costs of installing and monitoring experimental private 
on-site wastewater treatment systems installed under s. 145.02 (3) (b) and this 
section.  The department shall promulgate rules that specify how the department 
will select, monitor, and allocate the state share for experimental private on-site 
wastewater treatment systems that the department funds under this section.
(7)  APPLICATION .  (a)  In order to be eligible for a grant under this section, a 
governmental unit shall make an application for replacement or rehabilitation of 
private on-site wastewater treatment systems of principal residences or small 
commercial establishments and shall submit an application for participation to the 
department.  The application shall be in the form and include the information the 
department prescribes.  In order to be eligible for funds available in a fiscal year, an 
application is required to be received by the department prior to February 1 of the 
previous fiscal year.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1328 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
(b)  An American Indian tribe or band may submit an application for 
participation for any Indian lands under its jurisdiction.
(8)  CONDITIONS ; GOVERNMENTAL  UNITS .  As a condition for obtaining grant 
funding under this section, a governmental unit shall do all of the following:
(a)  Adopt and administer the maintenance program established under s. 
145.20 (5).
(b)  Certify that grants will be used for private on-site wastewater treatment 
system replacement or rehabilitation for a principal residence or small commercial 
establishment owned by a person who meets the eligibility requirements under sub. 
(3), that the funds will be used as provided under sub. (5), and that allowable costs 
will not exceed the amount permitted under sub. (6).
(c)  Certify that grants will be used for private on-site wastewater treatment 
systems that will be properly installed and maintained.
(d)  Certify that grants provided to the governmental unit will be disbursed to 
eligible owners.
(e)  Establish a process for regulation and inspection of private on-site 
wastewater treatment systems.
(f)  Establish a system of user charges and cost recovery if the governmental 
unit considers this system to be appropriate.  User charges and cost recovery may 
include the cost of the grant application fee and the cost of supervising installation 
and maintenance.
(g)  Establish a system that provides for the distribution of grant funds 
received among eligible applicants based on the amount requested in the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1329 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
application as approved by the department.  If the amount received by a county is 
insufficient to fully fund all grants, the county shall prorate grant funds on the 
same basis as sub. (12).
(9)  ASSISTANCE .  The department shall make its staff available to provide 
technical assistance to each governmental unit.  The department shall prepare and 
distribute to each participating governmental unit a manual of procedures for the 
grant program under this section.
(10)  DISTRIBUTION  OF LITERATURE .  The department shall prepare literature 
that describes the eligibility for receiving a grant under this section for a principal 
residence.  The department shall supply the literature to counties, and counties 
shall distribute the literature to recipients of public benefits.
(11)  ALLOCATION  OF FUNDS .  (a)  Determination of eligible applications.   At the 
beginning of each fiscal year the department shall determine the state grant share 
for applications from eligible owners received by participating governmental units.  
The department may revise this determination if a governmental unit does not 
meet the conditions specified under sub. (8) or if it determines that individuals do 
not meet eligibility requirements under sub. (3).
(b)  Allocation.   The department shall allocate available funds for grants to 
each participating governmental unit according to the total amount of the state 
grant share for all eligible applications received by that governmental unit.
(c)  Limitation; commercial establishments.   The department may not allocate 
more than 10 percent of the funds available under this subsection each fiscal year 
for grants for small commercial establishments.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1330 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
(d)  Limitation; experimental private on-site wastewater treatment systems.   
The department may not allocate more than 10 percent of the funds available under 
this subsection each fiscal year for grants for the installation and monitoring of 
experimental private on-site wastewater treatment systems.
(12)  PRORATING .  (a)  Except as provided in par. (d), the department shall 
prorate available funds under this subsection if funds are not sufficient to fully 
fund all applications.  A prorated payment shall be deemed full payment of the 
grant.
(b)  Except as provided in par. (d), if funds are sufficient to fully fund all 
category 1 but not all category 2 failing private on-site wastewater treatment 
systems, the department shall fully fund all category 1 systems and prorate the 
funds for category 2 systems on a proportional basis.
(c)  Except as provided in par. (d), if funds are not sufficient to fully fund all 
category 1 failing private on-site wastewater treatment systems, the department 
shall fund the category 1 systems on a proportional basis and deny the grant 
applications for all category 2 systems.
(d)  The department is not required to prorate available funds for grants for 
the installation and monitoring of experimental private on-site wastewater 
treatment systems.
(13)  D ETERMINATION  OF ELIGIBILITY ; DISBURSEMENT  OF GRANTS .  (a)  The 
department shall review applications for participation in the state program 
submitted under sub. (7).  The department shall determine if a governmental unit 
submitting an application meets the conditions specified under sub. (8).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1331 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
(b)  The department shall promulgate rules that define payment mechanisms 
to be used to disburse grants to a governmental unit.
(14)  INSPECTION .  Agents of the department or the governmental unit may 
enter premises where private on-site wastewater treatment systems are located 
pursuant to a special inspection warrant as required under s. 66.0119 to collect 
samples, records, and information and to ascertain compliance with the rules and 
orders of the department or the governmental unit.
(15)  ENFORCEMENT .  (a)  If the department has reason to believe that a 
violation of this section or any rule promulgated under this section has occurred, it 
may do any of the following:
1.  Cause written notice to be served upon the alleged violator.  The notice 
shall specify the alleged violation and contain the findings of fact on which the 
charge of violation is based and may include an order that necessary corrective 
action be taken within a reasonable time.  This order shall become effective unless, 
no later than 30 days after the date the notice and order are served, the person 
named in the notice and order requests in writing a hearing before the department.  
Upon this request and after due notice, the department shall hold a hearing.  
Instead of an order, the department may require that the alleged violator appear 
before the department for a hearing at a time and place specified in the notice and 
answer the charges complained of.
2.  Initiate action under sub. (16).
(b)  If after the hearing the department finds that a violation has occurred, it 
shall affirm or modify its order previously issued or issue an appropriate order for 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1332 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2184
the prevention, abatement, or control of the violation or for other corrective action.  
If the department finds that no violation has occurred, it shall rescind its order.  
Any order issued as part of a notice or after hearing may prescribe one or more 
dates by which necessary action shall be taken in preventing, abating, or controlling 
the violation.
(c)  Additional grants under this section to a governmental unit previously 
awarded a grant under this section may be suspended or terminated if the 
department finds that a private on-site wastewater treatment system previously 
funded in the governmental unit is not being or has not been properly rehabilitated, 
constructed, installed, or maintained.
(16)  PENALTIES .  Any person who violates this section or a rule or order 
promulgated under this section shall forfeit not less than $10 nor more than $5,000 
for each violation.  Each day of continued violation is a separate offense.  While an 
order is suspended, stayed, or enjoined, this penalty does not accrue.
SECTION  2185 .  146.34 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
146.34 (1) (f)  XParentY means a biological natural parent, a husband who has 
consented to the artificial insemination of his wife under s. 891.40 or a parent by 
adoption.  If the minor is a nonmarital child who is not adopted or whose parents do 
not subsequently intermarry under s. 767.803, XparentY includes a person adjudged 
in a judicial proceeding under ch. 48 to be the biological father of the minor.  
XParentY does not include any person whose parental rights have been terminated.
SECTION  2186 .  146.615 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1333 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2186
146.615   (title)  Advanced practice clinician Health care provider 
training grants.
SECTION  2187 .  146.615 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
146.615 (1) (a)  XAdvanced practice clinician Y means a physician assistant or 
an advanced practice registered nurse, including a nurse practitioner, certified 
nurse-midwife, clinical nurse specialist, or certified registered nurse anesthetist 
licensed under s. 441.09.
SECTION  2188 .  146.615 (1) (ag) and (ar) of the statutes are created to read:
146.615 (1) (ag)  XAllied health professional Y means any individual who is a 
health care provider other than a physician, dentist, pharmacist, chiropractor, or 
podiatrist and who provides diagnostic, technical, therapeutic, or direct patient 
care and support services to a patient.  
(ar)  XBehavioral health provider Y means any individual who is licensed as a 
psychologist or is certified as a social worker or licensed as a clinical social worker, 
a marriage and family therapist, or a professional counselor.
SECTION  2189 .  146.615 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
146.615 (2)  Beginning in fiscal year 2018-19 2025-26, from the appropriation 
under s. 20.435 (1) (fk), subject to sub. (3), the department shall distribute grants to 
hospitals, health systems, and clinics that provide new training opportunities for 
advanced practice clinicians.  The department shall distribute the grants under 
this section subsection to hospitals, health systems, and clinics that apply, in the 
form and manner determined by the department, to receive grants and that satisfy 
the criteria under sub. (3).
SECTION  2190 .  146.615 (2g) and (2r) of the statutes are created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1334 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2190
146.615 (2g)  Beginning in fiscal year 2025-26, from the appropriation under 
s. 20.435 (1) (fk), subject to sub. (3), the department shall distribute grants to 
hospitals, health systems, clinics, and educational entities that form health care 
education and training consortia for allied health professionals.  The department 
shall distribute the grants under this subsection to hospitals, health systems, 
clinics, and educational entities that apply, in the form and manner determined by 
the department, to receive a grant.
(2r)  Beginning in fiscal year 2025-26, from the appropriation under s. 20.435 
(1) (fk), subject to sub. (3), the department shall distribute grants to hospitals, 
health systems, clinics, and educational entities that form health care education 
and training consortia for behavioral health providers.  The department shall 
distribute the grants under this subsection to hospitals, health systems, clinics, and 
educational entities that apply, in the form and manner determined by the 
department, to receive a grant.
SECTION  2191 .  146.615 (3) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2192 .  146.615 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
146.615 (3) (b)  If the department distributes a grant to a hospital or clinic 
that has not previously received a grant under this section, the hospital or clinic 
receiving the grant may use the grant to create the education and infrastructure for 
training advanced practice clinicians or for activities authorized under par. (c).  In 
distributing grants under this section, the department shall give preference to 
advanced practice clinician clinical training programs that include rural hospitals 
and rural clinics as clinical training locations.
SECTION  2193 .  146.615 (3) (bm) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1335 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2193
146.615 (3) (bm)  Acceptable uses of grant moneys received under this section 
include reasonable expenses incurred by a trainee to fully succeed in training and 
eventual placement, expenses related to planning and implementing a training 
program, and up to $5,000 in equipment expenses. 
SECTION  2194 .  146.615 (3) (c) and (d) of the statutes are repealed.
SECTION  2195 .  146.616 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2196 .  146.691 of the statutes is created to read:
146.691   Reporting of medical debt to a consumer reporting agency.   
(1)  In this section:
(a)  XConsumer reporting agency Y has the meaning given in s. 100.54 (1) (c).
(b)  XHealth care provider Y has the meaning given in s. 146.81 (1).
(c)  XPatientY has the meaning given in s. 146.81 (3).
(2)  No health care provider that provided services to a patient, and no billing 
administrator or debt collector acting on behalf of that health care provider, may 
report to a consumer reporting agency that a debt arising from services provided by 
the health care provider is in collections status unless all of the following are true:
(a)  The health care provider, billing administrator, or debt collector sent a 
written statement to the patient describing the unpaid amount and due date and 
that included the name and address of the health care provider that provided the 
services.
(b)  The written statement under par. (a) includes a statement indicating that 
if payment is not received, the debt may be reported to a credit reporting agency.
(c)  Six months have passed since the due date listed on the statement under 
par. (a).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1336 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2196
(d)  The patient does not dispute the charges.
SECTION  2197 .  146.82 (2) (a) 8m. of the statutes is created to read:
146.82 (2) (a) 8m.  To the Population Health Institute, or its successor, at the 
University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine and Public Health under s. 
255.18 (2) and to the persons specified under s. 36.47 (3) (f).  The release of a patient 
health care record under this subdivision shall be limited to the information 
specified in the list under s. 36.47 (3) (d).
SECTION  2198 .  146.82 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
146.82 (3) (a)  Notwithstanding sub. (1), a physician, a naturopathic doctor, a 
limited-scope naturopathic doctor, a physician assistant, or an advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber certified under s. 441.16 (2) licensed under s. 441.09 
who treats a patient whose physical or mental condition in the physician [s, 
naturopathic doctor [s, limited-scope naturopathic doctor [s, physician assistant [s, or 
advanced practice nurse prescriber [s registered nurse [s judgment affects the 
patient[s ability to exercise reasonable and ordinary control over a motor vehicle 
may report the patient [s name and other information relevant to the condition to 
the department of transportation without the informed consent of the patient.
SECTION  2199 .  146.89 (1) (r) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
146.89 (1) (r) 1.  Licensed as a physician under ch. 448, naturopathic doctor 
under ch. 466, a dentist, dental therapist, or dental hygienist under ch. 447, a 
registered nurse, practical nurse, or nurse-midwife advanced practice registered 
nurse under ch. 441, an optometrist under ch. 449, a physician assistant under 
subch. IX of ch. 448, a pharmacist under ch. 450, a chiropractor under ch. 446, a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1337 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2199
podiatrist under subch. IV of ch. 448, or a physical therapist under subch. III of ch. 
448.
SECTION  2200 .  146.89 (1) (r) 3. of the statutes is renumbered 146.89 (1) (r) 5e. 
and amended to read:
146.89 (1) (r) 5e.  A registered nurse practitioner, as defined in s. 255.06 (1) (d) 
who holds a multistate license, as defined in s. 441.51 (2) (h), issued by a party 
state, as defined in s. 441.51 (2) (k), and whose practice of professional nursing 
under s. 441.001 (4) includes performance of delegated medical services under the 
supervision of a physician, dentist, podiatrist, or advanced practice registered 
nurse.
SECTION  2201 .  146.89 (1) (r) 8. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2202 .  146.89 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
146.89 (6) (a)  While serving as a volunteer health care provider under this 
section, an advanced practice registered nurse who has a certificate to issue 
prescription orders under s. 441.16 (2) is considered to meet the requirements of s. 
655.23, if required to comply with s. 655.23.
(b)  While serving as a volunteer health care provider under this section, an 
advanced practice registered nurse who has a certificate to issue prescription 
orders under s. 441.16 (2) is not required to maintain in effect malpractice 
insurance.
SECTION  2203 .  150.31 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
150.31 (1) (intro.)  In order to enable the state to budget accurately for medical 
assistance and to allocate fiscal resources most appropriately, the maximum 
number of licensed nursing home beds statewide is 51,795 25,415 and the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1338 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2203
maximum number of beds statewide in facilities primarily serving the 
developmentally disabled is 3,704.  The department may adjust these limits on 
licensed beds as provided in subs. (2) to (6).  The department shall also biennially 
recommend changes to this limit based on the following criteria:
SECTION  2204 .  150.31 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
150.31 (8)  The Subject to sub. (9), the department may allocate or distribute 
nursing home beds in a manner, developed by rule, that is consistent with the 
criteria specified in sub. (1) (a) to (f) and s. 150.39.
SECTION  2205 .  150.31 (9) of the statutes is created to read:
150.31 (9)  The department shall allocate 125 nursing home beds to persons 
that apply for the beds and agree to do all of the following:
(a)  Prioritize admissions of patients with complex needs.
(b)  Prioritize admissions of patients who have been unable to find appropriate 
placement at another facility.
SECTION  2206 .  Subchapter IX of chapter 150 [precedes 150.99] of the statutes 
is created to read:
CHAPTER 150
SUBCHAPTER IX 
HEALTH CARE ENTITY OVERSIGHT AND TRANSPARENCY
SECTION  2207 .  150.99 of the statutes is created to read:
150.99   Definitions.  In this subchapter:
(1)  XAcquisition Y means the direct or indirect purchase, including lease, 
transfer, exchange, option, receipt of a conveyance, or creation of a joint venture, or 
any other manner of purchase, such as by a health care system, private equity 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1339 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2207
group, hedge fund, publicly traded company, real estate investment trust, 
management services organization, insurance carrier, or any subsidiaries thereof, 
of a material amount of the assets or operations of a health care entity.
(2)  XAffiliate Y means any of the following:
(a)  A person, entity, or organization that directly, indirectly, or through one or 
more intermediaries controls, is controlled by, or is under common control or 
ownership of another person, entity, or organization.
(b)  A person whose business is operated under a lease, management, or 
operating agreement by another entity, or a person substantially all of whose 
property is operated under a management or operating agreement with that other 
entity.
(c)  An entity that operates the business or substantially all the property of 
another entity under a lease, management, or operating agreement.
(d)  Any out-of-state operations and corporate affiliates of an affiliate as 
defined in pars. (a) to (c), including significant equity investors, health care real 
estate investment trusts, or management services organizations.
(3)  XArrangement Y includes any agreement, association, partnership, joint 
venture, management services agreement, professional services agreement, health 
care staffing company agreement, or other arrangement that results in a change of 
governance or control of a health care entity or a department, subdivision, or 
subsidiary of a health care entity.
(4)  XChange of control Y means an arrangement in which any person, 
corporation, partnership, or any entity acquires direct or indirect control over the 
operations of a health care entity in whole or in substantial part.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1340 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2207
(5)  XControl,Y Xcontrolling, Y Xcontrolled by, Y and Xunder common control 
withY means the direct or indirect power through ownership, contractual 
agreement, or otherwise to do any of the following:
(a)  Vote 10 percent or more of any class of voting shares or interests of a health 
care entity.
(b)  Direct the actions or policies of the specified entity.
(6)  XHealth care facility Y means an institution that provides health care 
services or a health care setting, including hospitals and other inpatient facilities, 
health systems consisting of one or more health care entities that are jointly owned 
or managed, ambulatory surgical or treatment centers, skilled nursing facilities, 
residential treatment centers, diagnostic, laboratory, and imaging centers, 
freestanding emergency facilities, outpatient clinics, and rehabilitation and other 
therapeutic health settings.
(7)  XHealth care provider Y means any person, corporation, partnership, 
governmental unit, state institution, medical practice, or other entity that performs 
or provides health care services to persons in the state.
(8)  XHealth care services Y means services and payments for the care, 
prevention, diagnosis, treatment, cure, or relief of a medical, dental, or behavioral 
health condition, illness, injury, or disease, including any of the following:
(a)  Inpatient, outpatient, habilitative, rehabilitative, dental, palliative, 
therapeutic, supportive, home health, or behavioral services provided by a health 
care entity.
(b)  Pharmacy, retail, and specialty, including any drug, device, or medical 
supply.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1341 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2207
(c)  Performance of functions to refer, arrange, or coordinate care.
(d)  Equipment used such as durable medical equipment, diagnostic, surgical 
devices, or infusion.
(e)  Technology associated with the provision of services or equipment in pars. 
(a) to (d) above, such as telehealth, electronic health records, software, claims 
processing, or utilization systems.
(9)  XHealth care staffing company Y means a person, firm, corporation, 
partnership, or other business entity engaged in the business of providing or 
procuring, for temporary employment or contracting by a health care facility, any 
health care personnel, but does not include an individual who independently 
provides the individual [s own services on a temporary basis to health care facilities 
as an employee or contractor.
(10)  XLicensee Y means an individual who is licensed in the state as a 
physician, a doctor of osteopathy, or a physician assistant or a nurse practitioner 
who is authorized to diagnose and treat in the applicable clinical setting.
(11)  XManagement services organization Y means any organization or entity 
that contracts with a health care provider or provider organization to perform 
management or administrative services relating to, supporting, or facilitating the 
provision of health care services.
(12)  XMedical practice Y means a corporate entity or partnership organized for 
the purpose of practicing medicine and permitted to practice medicine in the state, 
including partnerships, professional corporations, limited liability companies, and 
limited liability partnerships.
(13)  XNoncompetition agreement Y means a written agreement between a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1342 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2207
licensee and another person under which the licensee agrees that the licensee, 
either alone or as an employee, associate, or affiliate of a third person, will not 
compete with the other person in providing products, processes, or services that are 
similar to the other person [s products, processes, or services for a period of time or 
within a specified geographic area after termination of employment or termination 
of a contract under which the licensee supplied goods to or performed services for 
the other person.
(14)  XNondisclosure agreement Y means a written agreement under the terms 
of which a licensee must refrain from disclosing partially, fully, directly, or 
indirectly to any person, other than another party to the written agreement or to a 
person specified in the agreement as a 3rd-party beneficiary of the agreement, any 
of the following:
(a)  A policy or practice that a party to the agreement required the licensee to 
use in patient care, other than individually identifiable health information that the 
licensee may not disclose under the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of 1996, P.L. 104-191, in effect on the effective date of this 
paragraph .... [LRB inserts date].
(b)  A policy, practice, or other information about or associated with the 
licensee[s employment, conditions of employment, or rate or amount of pay or other 
compensation.
(c)  Any other information the licensee possesses or to which the licensee has 
access by reason of the licensee [s employment by, or provision of services for or on 
behalf of, a party to the agreement, other than information that is subject to 
protection under applicable law as a trade secret of, or as otherwise proprietary to, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1343 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2207
another party to the agreement or to a person specified in the agreement as a third-
party beneficiary of the agreement.
(15)  XNondisparagement agreement Y means a written agreement under 
which a licensee must refrain from making to a 3rd party a statement about 
another party to the agreement or about another person specified in the agreement 
as a 3rd-party beneficiary of the agreement, the effect of which causes or threatens 
to cause harm to the other party [s or person [s reputation, business relations, or 
other economic interests.
(16)  XOwnership or investment interest Y means any of the following:
(a)  Direct or indirect possession of equity in the capital, stock, or profits 
totaling more than 5 percent of an entity.
(b)  Interest held by an investor or group of investors who engages in the 
raising or returning of capital and who invests, develops, or disposes of specified 
assets.
(c)  Interest held by a pool of funds by investors, including a pool of funds 
managed or controlled by private limited partnerships, if those investors or the 
management of that pool or private limited partnership employ investment 
strategies of any kind to earn a return on that pool of funds.
(17)  XPrivate equity fund Y means a publicly traded or nonpublicly traded 
company that collects capital investments from individuals or entities and 
purchases a direct or indirect ownership share or controlling interest of a health 
care entity. 
(18)  XProvider organization Y means any corporation, partnership, business 
trust, association, or organized group of persons that is in the business of health 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1344 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2207
care delivery or management, whether incorporated or not, that represents one or 
more health care providers in contracting with insurance carriers for the payments 
of health care services.  XProvider organization Y includes physician organizations, 
physician-hospital organizations, independent practice associations, provider 
networks, accountable care organizations, management services organizations, and 
any other organization that contracts with insurance carriers for payment for 
health care services.
(19)  XSignificant equity investor Y means any of the following:
(a)  Any private equity fund with a direct or indirect ownership or investment 
interest in a health care entity.
(b)  Any investor, group of investors, or other entity with a direct or indirect 
possession of equity in the capital, stock, or profits totaling more than 10 percent of 
a health care provider or provider organization.
(c)  Any private equity fund, investor, group of investors, or other entity with a 
direct or indirect controlling interest in a health care entity or that operates the 
business or substantially all of the property of a health care entity under a lease, 
management, or operating agreement.
SECTION  2208 .  150.992 of the statutes is created to read:
150.992   Material change transactions.   (1)  NOTICE .  (a)  Any health care 
entity shall, before consummating any material change transaction, submit written 
notice to the department not fewer than 180 days before the date of the proposed 
material change transaction.  The department shall promulgate rules to define, for 
purposes of this subchapter, what entities are considered health care entities and 
what constitutes a material change transaction.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1345 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
(b)  Written notice shall include and contain the information the department 
determines is required.  The health care entity may include any additional 
information supporting the written notice of the material change transaction.  
Notice is complete when the department determines that all required information 
has been received.
(c)  All information provided by the submitter as part of the notice shall be 
treated as public record unless the submitter designates documents or information 
as confidential when submitting the notice and the department concurs with the 
designation in accordance with a process specified by the department by rule.  
Information that is otherwise publicly available, or that has not been confidentially 
maintained by the source, shall be considered public.  The department shall 
maintain the confidentiality of all confidential information obtained in relation to a 
material change transaction, except that the department may share confidential 
information with other appropriate state agencies and departments to carry out 
their respective authorities under this section and may disclose any information to 
an expert or consultant under contract with the department, provided that the 
expert or consultant is bound by the same confidentiality requirements as the 
department.  The confidential information and documents may not be treated as 
public records and are not subject to inspection or copying under s. 19.35.
(d)  The department shall post on its publicly available website information 
about the material change transaction no less than 30 days before the anticipated 
implementation of the material change transaction or, if the department is notified 
less than 30 days before the anticipated implementation, as soon as is practicable.  
The department shall include in the information posted on its website under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1346 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
paragraph at least all of the following information regarding the material change 
transaction:
1.  A summary of the proposed transaction, including the identity of the 
parties to the transaction.
2.  A description of the groups or individuals likely to be affected by the 
transaction.
3.  Information about services currently provided by the health care entity, 
commitments by the health care entity to continue such services, and any services 
that will be reduced or eliminated.
4.  Details about any public hearings and how to submit comments.
5.  Any other information from the notice and other materials submitted by the 
health care entity that the attorney general or the department determines would be 
in the public interest, except for materials designated confidential under par. (c).
(e)  For purposes of calculating time periods under this section, notice shall be 
considered received on the first business day after the department determines that 
notice is complete.
(2)  P RELIMINARY  REVIEW .  (a)  Within 30 days after receiving notice as 
described in sub. (1), the department shall do one of the following:
1.  Approve the material change transaction and notify the health care entity 
in writing that a comprehensive review is not required for the material change 
transaction.
2.  Approve the material change transaction subject to conditions set by the 
department and notify the health care entity in writing of the conditions under 
which the transaction may be completed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1347 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
3.  Notify the health care entity in writing that the transaction is subject to a 
comprehensive review.  The department may request additional information 
necessary to perform a comprehensive review under sub. (3).
(b)  Nothing in this section limits or infringes upon the existing authority of 
any state agency or the attorney general to review any transactions.
(3)  COMPREHENSIVE  REVIEW  PROCESS .  (a)  For purposes of this subsection, 
Xmarket power Y means possessing 30 percent or more market share in any line of 
service in the relevant geographic area or meeting other criteria that the 
department may define by rule.
(b)  A comprehensive review is required when any of the following applies to 
the material change transaction:
1.  The transaction will result in the transfer of assets valued above $20 
million.
2.  The transaction occurs in a highly consolidated market for any line of 
services offered by any party to the material change transaction.
3.  The transaction will cause a significant change in market share such that 
any resulting health care entity possesses market power upon completion.
4.  The transaction will otherwise reduce competition, including effects of 
vertical or cross-market transactions among different product or geographic 
markets.
5.  Either party to the material change transaction possesses market power 
prior to the transaction.
6.  The department, at its sole discretion, determines that the material change 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1348 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
transaction is likely to have a material impact on the cost of, quality of, equity of, or 
access to health care services in any region in the state.
(c)  No later than 90 days after determining a material change transaction is 
subject to a comprehensive review, the department shall conduct the review and 
shall conduct one or more public hearings or public meetings, one of which shall be 
in the county in which the health care entity is located, to hear comments from 
interested parties.
(d)  Not more than 90 days after determining that the material change 
transaction is subject to a comprehensive review under this subsection, the 
department shall produce a cost and market impact review report containing the 
findings and conclusions of the cost and market impact review, provided that the 
health care entity has complied with the requests for information or documents 
pursuant to this subsection within 21 days of the request or by a later date set by 
mutual agreement of the health care entity and the department.  The cost and 
market impact review report shall be posted publicly and may not disclose 
confidential information.
(e)  The cost and market impact review may examine factors relating to the 
proposed material change transaction, transacting parties, and their relative 
market position, including any of the following:
1.  The market share of each transacting party and the likely effects of the 
material change transaction on competition.
2.  Any previous material change transaction involving any transacting party, 
including acquisitions or mergers of similar health care providers, whether or not in 
the same state.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1349 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
3.  The prices charged by each transacting party for services, including their 
relative prices compared to others [ prices for the same services in the same 
geographic area.
4.  The quality of the services provided by any health care provider party to 
the material change transaction, including patient experience.
5.  The cost and cost trends of any health care entity party in comparison to 
total health care expenditures statewide.
6.  The availability and accessibility of services similar to those provided, or 
proposed to be provided, through any health care provider or provider organization 
party within its primary service areas and dispersed service areas.
7.  The impact of the material change transaction on competing options for the 
delivery of health care services within the primary service areas and dispersed 
service areas of the transacting parties.
8.  The role of the transacting parties in serving at-risk, underserved, and 
government-payer patient populations.
9.  The role of the transacting parties in providing low-margin or negative-
margin services within its primary service areas and dispersed service areas.
10.  Consumer concerns, including complaints or other allegations that any 
provider or provider organization party has engaged in any unfair method of 
competition or any unfair or deceptive act or practice.
11.  The parties [ compliance with prior conditions and legal requirements 
related to competitive conduct, including compliance with s. 150.994, reporting 
requirements regarding health care entity ownership and control under s. 150.996, 
or restrictions on anticompetitive contracting provisions.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1350 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
12.  The impact of the material change transaction on the clinical workforce, 
including wages, staffing levels, supply, patient access, and continuity of patient-
care relationships.
13.  The impact of a real estate sale or lease agreement on the financial 
condition of any health care entity party and its ability to maintain patient care 
operations.
14.  In the case of a proposed closure or discontinuance of a health care facility 
or any essential health services, the impact of the closure on health care access, 
outcomes, costs, and equity for those in the health care facility [s service area and 
the health care facility [s plan for ensuring equitable access, quality, affordability, 
and availability of essential health services within the service area.
15.  Any other factors that the department determines, by rules promulgated 
by the department, to be in the public interest.
(f)  The department may request additional information or documents from 
the transacting parties necessary to conduct a cost and market impact review.  
Failure to respond or insufficient responses to requests for information by 
transacting parties may result in the extension of the deadline for the department 
to complete the cost and market impact review, the imposition of conditions for 
approval, or the disapproval of the material change transaction.
(g)  The department shall keep confidential all nonpublic information and 
documents obtained under this subsection and may not disclose the confidential 
information or documents to any person without the consent of the party that 
produced the confidential information or documents, except that the department 
may disclose any information to an expert or consultant under contract with the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1351 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
department to review the proposed transaction, provided that the expert or 
consultant is bound by the same confidentiality requirements as the department. 
The confidential information and documents and work product of the department 
may not be treated as public records and shall be exempt from inspection or copying 
under s. 19.35.
(h)  The department may, in its sole discretion:
1.  Contract with, consult, and receive advice from any state agency on those 
terms and conditions that the department determines are appropriate with regard 
to reviewing a proposed material change transaction.
2.  Contract with experts or consultants to assist in reviewing a proposed 
material change transaction.
(i)  The department shall be entitled to charge costs to or receive 
reimbursement from the transacting parties for all actual, reasonable, direct costs 
incurred in reviewing, evaluating, and making the determination referred to in this 
subsection, including administrative costs and costs of contracted experts or 
consultants in par. (h).
(4)  APPROVAL  AUTHORITY .  (a)  The department may at its discretion approve, 
conditionally approve, or disapprove of any material change transaction for which 
the department receives notice under sub. (1).  Any conditions imposed under this 
subsection shall specify a time period for compliance, an expiration date, or that the 
condition applies indefinitely.
(b)  The department shall inform the health care entity of the determination 
within 30 days of notice under sub. (2), or in the case of comprehensive review, 
within 60 days of the completion of the cost and market impact review.  No proposed 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1352 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
material change transaction may be completed before the department has informed 
the health care entity of the determination.
(c)  In making the determination under this subsection, the department may 
consider any factors that the department determines to be relevant, including any 
of the following:
1.  The likely impact, as described in the cost and market impact review report, 
where applicable, of the material change transaction on any of the following:
a.  Health care costs, prices, and affordability.
b.  The availability or accessibility of health care services to the affected 
community.
c.  Health care provider cost trends and containment of total state health care 
spending.
d.  Access to services in medically underserved areas.
e.  Rectifying historical and contemporary factors contributing to a lack of 
health equities or access to services.
f.  The functioning and competitiveness of the markets for health care and 
health insurance.
g.  The potential effects of the material change transaction on health 
outcomes, quality, access, equity, or workforce for residents of this state.
h.  The potential loss of or change in access to essential services.
2.  Whether the material change transaction is contrary to or violates any 
applicable law, including state antitrust laws, laws restricting the corporate 
practice of medicine, or consumer protection laws.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1353 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
3.  Whether the benefits of the transaction are likely to outweigh any 
anticompetitive effect from the transaction.
4.  Whether the transaction is in the public interest.
(d)  This subsection does not limit or alter any existing authority of the 
attorney general or any state agency to enforce any other law, including state or 
federal antitrust law, or to review nonprofit transactions.
(5)  POST-TRANSACTION  OVERSIGHT .  (a)  Enforcement by the attorney general.  
1.  The attorney general may subpoena any records necessary to enforce any 
provisions of this section or to investigate suspected violations of any provisions of 
this section or any conditions imposed by conditional approval pursuant to sub. (4).
2.  The attorney general may enforce any requirement of this section and any 
conditions imposed by a conditional approval pursuant to sub. (4) to the fullest 
extent provided by law, including damages.  In addition to any legal remedies the 
attorney general may have, the attorney general shall be entitled to specific 
performance, injunctive relief, and other equitable remedies a court deems 
appropriate for any violations or imminent violation of any requirement of this 
section or breach of any of the conditions and shall be entitled to recover its attorney 
fees and costs incurred in remedying each violation.
3.  In addition to the remedies set forth in subd. 2., any person who violates 
this section or of any conditions imposed pursuant to a conditional approval under 
sub. (4) is subject to a forfeiture of $10,000 per day, which the attorney general may 
seek to recover by action on behalf of the state.  The attorney general may also 
rescind or deny approval for any other past, pending, or future material change 
transactions involving the health care entity or an affiliate.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1354 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
4.  Nothing in this paragraph shall narrow, abrogate, or otherwise alter the 
authority of the attorney general to prosecute violations of antitrust or consumer 
protection requirements.
(b)  Enforcement by the department.   1.  The department may audit the books, 
documents, records, and data of any entity that is subject to a conditional approval 
under sub. (4) to monitor compliance with the conditions.
2.  Any entity that violates any provision of this section, any rules adopted 
pursuant thereto, or any condition imposed pursuant to a conditional approval 
under sub. (4) shall be subject to a forfeiture of $10,000 per day for any violation of 
this section.
3.  The department may refer any entity to the attorney general to review for 
enforcement of any noncompliance with this section and any conditions imposed by 
conditional approval pursuant to sub. (4).
(c)  Monitoring.   In order to effectively monitor ongoing compliance with the 
terms and conditions of any material change transaction subject to prior notice, 
approval, or conditional approval under sub. (4), the department may, in its sole 
discretion, conduct a review or audit and may contract with experts and 
consultants to assist in this regard.
(d)  Reporting.   One year, 2 years, and 5 years following the completion of the 
material change transaction approved or conditionally approved by the department 
after a comprehensive review under sub. (3), and upon future intervals determined 
at the discretion of the department, the health care entity or any person, 
corporation, partnership, or other entity that acquired direct or indirect control over 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1355 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2208
the health care entity shall submit reports to the department that do all of the 
following:
1.  Demonstrate compliance with conditions placed on the material change 
transaction, if any.
2.  Analyze cost trends and cost growth trends of the transacting parties.
3.  Analyze any changes or effects of the material change transaction on 
patient access, availability of services, workforce, quality, or equity.
(e)  Costs.   The department shall be entitled to charge costs to the transacting 
parties for all actual, reasonable, and direct costs incurred in monitoring ongoing 
compliance with the terms and conditions of the sale or transfer of assets, including 
contractor and administrative costs.
(6)  RULES .  The department may promulgate rules to implement this section.
SECTION  2209 .  150.994 of the statutes is created to read:
150.994   Corporate practice of medicine.   The corporate practice of 
medicine is prohibited.  The department shall promulgate rules to define what 
conduct constitutes the corporate practice of medicine for purposes of this section.
SECTION  2210 .  150.996 of the statutes is created to read:
150.996   Transparency in ownership and control of health care 
entities.   (1)  REPORTING  OF OWNERSHIP  AND CONTROL .  Each health care entity 
shall report to the department on an annual basis and upon the consummation of a 
material change transaction involving the entity as set forth in s. 150.992, in a form 
and manner required by the department, all of the following information, as 
applicable:
(a)  Legal name of entity.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1356 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2210
(b)  Business address of entity.
(c)  Locations of operations.
(d)  Business identification numbers of the entity, as applicable, including all 
of the following:
1.  Taxpayer identification number.
2.  National provider identifier.
3.  Employer identification number.
4.  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services certification number.
5.  National Association of Insurance Commissioners identification number.
6.  A personal identification number associated with a license issued by the 
commissioner of insurance.
7.  Pharmacy benefit manager identification number associated with a license 
or registration of the pharmacy benefit manager in this state.
(e)  Name and contact information of a representative of the entity.
(f)  The name, business address, and business identification numbers listed in 
par. (d) for each person or entity that, with respect to the relevant health care 
entity, has an ownership or investment interest, has a controlling interest, is a 
management services organization, or is a significant equity investor.
(g)  A current organizational chart showing the business structure of the 
health care entity, including all of the following:
1.  Any entity listed in par. (f).
2.  Affiliates, including entities that control or are under common control as 
the health care entity.
3.  Subsidiaries.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1357 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2210
(h)  For a health care entity that is a provider organization or a health care 
facility, all of the following information:
1. a.  The affiliated health care providers identified by name, license type, 
specialty, national provider identifier, and other applicable identification number 
listed in par. (d).
b.  The address of the principal practice location.
c.  Whether the health care provider is employed or contracted by the entity.
2.  The name and address of affiliated health care facilities by license number, 
license type, and capacity in each major service area.
(i)  The names, national provider identifier, if applicable, and compensation of 
all of the following:
a.  The members of the governing board, board of directors, or similar 
governance body for the health care entity.
b.  Any entity that is owned or controlled by, affiliated with, or under common 
control as the health care entity.
c.  Any entity listed in par. (f).
(j)  Comprehensive financial reports of the health care entity and any 
ownership or control entities, including audited financial statements, cost reports, 
annual costs, annual receipts, realized capital gains and losses, accumulated 
surplus, and accumulated reserves.
(2)  EXCEPTIONS .  All of the following health care entities are exempt from the 
reporting requirements under sub. (1):
(a)  A health care entity that is an independent provider organization, without 
any ownership or control entities, consisting of 2 or fewer physicians, provided that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1358 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2210
if that health care entity experiences a material change transaction under s. 
150.992, the health care entity is subject to reporting under sub. (1) upon the 
consummation of the transaction.
(b)  A health care provider or provider organization that is owned or controlled 
by another health care entity, if the health care provider or provider organization is 
shown in the organizational chart submitted under sub. (1) (g) and the owning or 
controlling health care entity reports all the information required under sub. (1) on 
behalf of the controlled or owned entity.  Health care facilities are not subject to this 
exception.
(3)  RULES .  (a)  The department shall promulgate any rules necessary to 
implement this section, specify the format and content of reports, and impose 
penalties for noncompliance.  The department may require additional reporting of 
data or information that it determines is necessary to better protect the public [s 
interest in monitoring the financial conditions, organizational structure, business 
practices, and market share of each registered health care entity.
(b)  The department may assess administrative fees on health care entities in 
an amount to help defray the costs in overseeing and implementing this section.
(4)  OWNERSHIP  INFORMATION .  (a)  Information provided under this section 
shall be public information and may not be considered confidential, proprietary, or 
a trade secret, except that any individual health care provider [s taxpayer 
identification that is also their social security number shall be confidential.
(b)  Not later than December 31, 2028, and annually thereafter, the 
department shall post on its publicly available website a report with respect to the 
previous one-year period, including all of the following information:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1359 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2210
1.  The number of health care entities reporting for the year, disaggregated by 
the business structure of each specified entity.
2.  The names, addresses, and business structure of any entities with an 
ownership or controlling interest in each health care entity.
3.  Any change in ownership or control for each health care entity.
4.  Any change in the tax identification number of a health care entity.
5.  As applicable, the name, address, tax identification number, and business 
structure of other affiliates under common control, subsidiaries, and management 
services entities for the health care entity, including the business type and the tax 
identification number of each.
6.  An analysis of trends in horizontal and vertical consolidation, 
disaggregated by business structure and provider type.
(c)  The department may share information reported under this section with 
the attorney general, other state agencies, and other state officials to reduce or 
avoid duplication in reporting requirements or to facilitate oversight or enforcement 
under state law.  Any tax identification numbers that are individual social security 
numbers may be shared with the attorney general, other state agencies, or other 
state officials that agree to maintain the confidentiality of such information.  The 
department may, in consultation with the relevant state agencies, merge similar 
reporting requirements where appropriate.
(5)  ENFORCEMENT .  (a)  Audit and inspection authority.   The department is 
authorized to audit and inspect the records of any health care entity that has failed 
to submit complete information pursuant to this section or if the department has 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1360 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2210
reason to question the accuracy or completeness of the information submitted 
pursuant this section.
(b)  Random audits.   The department shall conduct annual audits of a random 
sample of health care entities to verify compliance with, accuracy, and completeness 
of the reported information pursuant to this section.
(c)  Penalty for failure to report.   If a health care entity fails to provide a 
complete report under sub. (1), or submits a report containing false information, the 
entity shall be subject to all of the following civil penalties, as appropriate:
1.  Health care entities consisting of independent health care providers or 
provider organizations without any 3rd-party ownership or control entities, with 10 
or fewer physicians or less than $10 million in annual revenue, a forfeiture of up to 
$50,000 for each report not provided or containing false information.
2.  For all other health care entities, a forfeiture of up to $500,000 for each 
report not provided or containing false information.
SECTION  2211 .  154.01 (1g) of the statutes is amended to read:
154.01 (1g)  XAdvanced practice registered nurse Y means  a nurse an 
individual licensed under ch. 441 who is currently certified by a national certifying 
body approved by the board of nursing as a nurse practitioner, certified nurse-
midwife, certified registered nurse anesthetist, or clinical nurse specialist s. 441.09.
SECTION  2212 .  155.01 (1g) (b) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to 
read:
155.01 (1g) (b)  An individual who is licensed as an advanced practice 
registered nurse and possesses a nurse practitioner specialty designation under s. 
441.09.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1361 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2213
SECTION  2213 .  157.05 of the statutes is amended to read:
157.05   Autopsy.   Consent for a licensed physician to conduct an autopsy on 
the body of a deceased person shall be deemed sufficient when given by whichever 
one of the following assumes custody of the body for purposes of burial:  Father, 
mother, husband, wife parent, spouse, child, guardian, next of kin, domestic 
partner under ch. 770, or in the absence of any of the foregoing, a friend, or a person 
charged by law with the responsibility for burial.  If 2 or more such persons assume 
custody of the body, the consent of one of them shall be deemed sufficient.
SECTION  2214 .  157.06 (11) (hm) of the statutes is created to read:
157.06 (11) (hm)  Unless otherwise required by federal law, a hospital, 
physician, procurement organization, or other person may not determine the 
ultimate recipient of an anatomical gift based solely upon a positive test for the use 
of marijuana by a potential recipient.
SECTION  2215 .  157.06 (11) (i) of the statutes is amended to read:
157.06 (11) (i)  Except as provided under par. pars. (a) 2. and (hm), nothing in 
this section affects the allocation of organs for transplantation or therapy.
SECTION  2216 .  160.07 (5) of the statutes is renumbered 160.07 (5) (a) and 
amended to read:
160.07 (5) (a)  Within Except as provided under par. (b), within 9 months after 
transmitting the name of a substance to the department of health services under 
sub. (2), the department of natural resources shall propose rules establishing the 
recommendation of the department of health services as the enforcement standard 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1362 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2216
for that substance and publish the notice required under s. 227.16 (2) (e), 227.17 or 
227.24 (3).
SECTION  2217 .  160.07 (5) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
160.07 (5) (b)  Within 3 months after receiving a recommended enforcement 
standard for a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance from the department of 
health services under sub. (3), the department of natural resources shall prepare a 
statement of scope under s. 227.135 of proposed rules that establish the 
recommendation of the department of health services as the enforcement standard 
for that substance.
SECTION  2218 .  165.08 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.08 (1)  Any civil action prosecuted by the department by direction of any 
officer, department, board, or commission, or any shall be compromised or 
discontinued when so directed by such officer, department, board, or commission.  
Any civil action prosecuted by the department on the initiative of the attorney 
general, or at the request of any individual may be compromised or discontinued 
with the approval of an intervenor under s. 803.09 (2m) or, if there is no intervenor, 
by submission of a proposed plan to the joint committee on finance for the approval 
of the committee.  The compromise or discontinuance may occur only if the joint 
committee on finance approves the proposed plan.  No proposed plan may be 
submitted to the joint committee on finance if the plan concedes the 
unconstitutionality or other invalidity of a statute, facially or as applied, or 
concedes that a statute violates or is preempted by federal law, without the approval 
of the joint committee on legislative organization the governor.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1363 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2219
SECTION  2219 .  165.10 of the statutes is amended to read:
165.10   Deposit Limits on expenditure of discretionary settlement 
funds.   The Notwithstanding s. 20.455 (3) (g), before the attorney general shall 
deposit all may expend settlement funds into the general fund under s. 20.455 (3) 
(g) that are not committed under the terms of the settlement, the attorney general 
shall submit to the joint committee on finance a proposed plan for the expenditure 
of the funds.  If the cochairpersons of the committee do not notify the attorney 
general within 14 working days after the submittal that the committee has 
scheduled a meeting for the purpose of reviewing the proposed plan, the attorney 
general may expend the funds to implement the proposed plan.  If, within 14 
working days after the submittal, the cochairpersons of the committee notify the 
attorney general that the committee has scheduled a meeting for the purpose of 
reviewing the proposed plan, the attorney general may expend the funds only to 
implement the plan as approved by the committee.
SECTION  2220 .  165.12 (2) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2221 .  165.25 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.25 (1)  REPRESENT  STATE  IN APPEALS  AND ON REMAND .  Except as provided 
in ss. 5.05 (2m) (a), 19.49 (2) (a), and 978.05 (5), appear for the state and prosecute 
or defend all actions and proceedings, civil or criminal, in the court of appeals and 
the supreme court, in which the state is interested or a party, and attend to and 
prosecute or defend all civil cases sent or remanded to any circuit court in which the 
state is a party.  The joint committee on legislative organization may intervene as 
permitted under s. 803.09 (2m) at any time.  Nothing in this subsection deprives or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1364 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2221
relieves the attorney general or the department of justice of any authority or duty 
under this chapter.
SECTION  2222 .  165.25 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.25 (1m)   R EPRESENT  STATE  IN OTHER  MATTERS .  If requested by the 
governor or either house of the legislature, appear for and represent the state, any 
state department, agency, official, employee or agent, whether required to appear 
as a party or witness in any civil or criminal matter, and prosecute or defend in any 
court or before any officer, any cause or matter, civil or criminal, in which the state 
or the people of this state may be interested.  The joint committee on legislative 
organization may intervene as permitted under s. 803.09 (2m) at any time.  The 
public service commission may request under s. 196.497 (7) that the attorney 
general intervene in federal proceedings.  All expenses of the proceedings shall be 
paid from the appropriation under s. 20.455 (1) (d).
SECTION  2223 .  165.25 (4) (ar) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.25 (4) (ar)  The department of justice shall furnish all legal services 
required by the department of agriculture, trade and consumer protection relating 
to the enforcement of ss. 91.68, 93.73, 100.171, 100.173, 100.174, 100.175, 100.177, 
100.18, 100.182, 100.195, 100.20, 100.205, 100.207, 100.209, 100.2091, 100.2092, 
100.21, 100.28, 100.37, 100.42, 100.50, 100.51, 100.55, and 846.45 and chs. 126, 
136, 344, 704, 707, and 779, together with any other services as are necessarily 
connected to the legal services.
SECTION  2224 .  165.25 (6) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
165.25 (6) (a) 1.  At the request of the head of any department of state 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1365 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2224
government, the attorney general may appear for and defend any state department, 
or any state officer, employee, or agent of the department in any civil action or other 
matter brought before a court or an administrative agency which is brought against 
the state department, or officer, employee, or agent for or on account of any act 
growing out of or committed in the lawful course of an officer [s, employee [s, or 
agent[s duties.  Witness fees or other expenses determined by the attorney general 
to be reasonable and necessary to the defense in the action or proceeding shall be 
paid as provided for in s. 885.07.  The attorney general may compromise and settle 
the action as the attorney general determines to be in the best interest of the state 
except that, if the action is for injunctive relief or there is a proposed consent decree, 
the attorney general may not compromise or settle the action without the approval 
of an intervenor under s. 803.09 (2m) or, if there is no intervenor, without first 
submitting a proposed plan to the joint committee on finance.  If, within 14 working 
days after the plan is submitted, the cochairpersons of the committee notify the 
attorney general that the committee has scheduled a meeting for the purpose of 
reviewing the proposed plan, the attorney general may compromise or settle the 
action only with the approval of the committee.  The attorney general may not 
submit a proposed plan to the joint committee on finance under this subdivision in 
which the plan concedes the unconstitutionality or other invalidity of a statute, 
facially or as applied, or concedes that a statute violates or is preempted by federal 
law, without the approval of the joint committee on legislative organization.
SECTION  2225 .  165.25 (10m) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.25 (10m)   REPORT  ON GRANTS .  (intro.)  Beginning on January 15, 2015, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1366 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2225
and annually thereafter, the department of justice shall submit a report to the 
legislature under s. 13.172 (2), regarding its administration of grant programs 
under ss. s. 165.95, 2023 stats., s. 165.955, 2023 stats., and ss. 165.96, 165.986, and 
165.987.  The report shall include, for each grant program, all of the following 
information:
SECTION  2226 .  165.25 (11) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2227 .  165.25 (11m) of the statutes is created to read:
165.25 (11m)   FALSE  CLAIMS .  Diligently investigate possible violations of s. 
20.9315 and, if the department determines that a person has committed an act that 
is punishable under s. 20.9315, may bring a civil action against that person.
SECTION  2228 .  165.63 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.63 (3)  REQUESTS  FROM  COURTS .  In making a determination required 
under s. 813.124 (7) (a), 813.1285 (7) (a), or 968.20 (1m) (d) 1., a judge or court 
commissioner shall request information under sub. (2) from the department or from 
a law enforcement agency or law enforcement officer as provided in sub. (4) (d).
SECTION  2229 .  165.63 (4) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.63 (4) (d)  Aid the court in making a determination required under s. 
813.124 (7) (a), 813.1285 (7) (a), or 968.20 (1m) (d) 1. or aid an entity in making a 
determination required under s. 968.20 (1m) (d) 2.
SECTION  2230 .  165.64 of the statutes is created to read:
165.64   Self-assigned firearm exclusion.   (1)  In this section, Xdepartment Y 
means the department of justice.
(2)  The department shall develop forms for individuals to submit to the 
department to request, or to renew a request, that they be prohibited from 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1367 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2230
purchasing a firearm.  The forms shall request an emergency contact person and 
shall allow the individual to choose the term of the prohibition as follows:
(a)  A one-year, irrevocable term.
(b)  A 5-year term, the first year being irrevocable.
(c)  A 20-year term, the first year being irrevocable.
(3)  If an individual submits a form requesting that they be prohibited from 
purchasing a firearm, the department shall enter the individual [s identifying 
information into a database the department maintains and shall notify that 
individual [s emergency contact person that the individual has submitted a form.
(4) (a)  Subject to par. (b), the department shall remove the individual [s 
identifying information from the database under sub. (3) if any of the following 
occurs:
1.  After the term under sub. (2) expires, the individual submits a form 
designed by the department requesting that their identifying information be 
removed.  A term that has expired and has not been renewed continues until 
revoked under this subdivision and the identifying information is removed.
2.  Before the term under sub. (2) expires but after the request becomes 
revocable under sub. (2) (b) or (c), the individual submits a form designed by the 
department requesting that their identifying information be removed.
(b)  The department shall notify the individual [s emergency contact person 
that the department has received a request submitted under par. (a) and may not 
remove the individual [s identifying information from the database until at least 48 
hours have elapsed since the department received the request.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1368 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2230
(5)  The department may disclose an individual [s identifying information 
included in the database under sub. (3) only as part of a firearms restrictions record 
search under s. 175.35 (2g) (c), as part of a search under s. 175.355 (2), or to the 
individual who is the subject of the information or the individual [s emergency 
contact person.
SECTION  2231 .  165.68 (1) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
165.68 (1) (a) 3.  Sexual abuse, as defined in s. 103.10 (1m) (b) 6 (1) (gd).
SECTION  2232 .  165.83 (1) (c) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
165.83 (1) (c) 1.  An act that is committed by  a person who has attained the 
age of 17 an adult and that is a felony or a misdemeanor.
SECTION  2233 .  165.83 (1) (c) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
165.83 (1) (c) 2.  An act that is committed by a person minor who has attained 
the age of 10 but who has not attained the age of 17 and that would be a felony or 
misdemeanor if committed by an adult.
SECTION  2234 .  165.83 (2) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.83 (2) (d)  Obtain Except as provided in par. (dd), obtain and file 
information relating to identifiable stolen or lost property.
SECTION  2235 .  165.83 (2) (dd) of the statutes is created to read:
165.83 (2) (dd) 1.  If a law enforcement agency forwards a file under s. 175.36 
(2) (a) 2. to the department, enter the information into the national crime 
information center systems and put the file in a database that is created for stolen 
or lost firearms and make the database available to law enforcement agencies for 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1369 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2235
the purpose of locating and identifying stolen or lost firearms and identifying 
violators of s. 175.36 (1).
2.  If a law enforcement agency notifies the department under s. 175.36 (2) (b) 
that a stolen or lost firearm has been recovered, enter that information into the 
national crime information center systems and add to the database a notation that 
the firearm has been recovered and the date on which it was recovered.
SECTION  2236 .  165.85 (2) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.85 (2) (c)  XLaw enforcement officer Y means any person employed by the 
state or any political subdivision of the state, for the purpose of detecting and 
preventing crime and enforcing laws or ordinances and who is authorized to make 
arrests for violations of the laws or ordinances that the person is employed and 
sworn to enforce.  XLaw enforcement officer Y includes a marshal of the supreme 
court under s. 758.195 and a university police officer, as defined in s. 175.42 (1) (b).
SECTION  2237 .  165.85 (4) (a) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
165.85 (4) (a) 1m.  The board may not create criteria for participation in the 
preparatory training program under subd. 1. that would prevent a person from 
participation if the person is in receipt of a valid employment authorization from 
the federal department of homeland security.
SECTION  2238 .  165.85 (5x) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.85 (5x)  OFFICER  TRAINING  REIMBURSEMENT .  Notwithstanding sub. (5), in 
each fiscal year, the department of justice shall determine the amount of additional 
costs, including but not limited to tuition, lodging, travel, meals, salaries and fringe 
benefits, to each political subdivision as a result of the enactment of 1993 Wisconsin 
Act 460.  In each fiscal year, the department shall pay each political subdivision the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1370 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2238
amount determined under this subsection for that political subdivision from the 
appropriation appropriations under s. 20.455 (2) (am) and (q), subject to the 
limitations under s. 20.455 (2) (am).
SECTION  2239 .  165.91 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.91 (2) (a)  From the appropriation under s. 20.455 (2) (kw), the 
department shall provide grants totaling $1,390,000 annually to tribes to fund 
tribal law enforcement operations.  To be eligible for a grant under this subsection, 
a tribe must submit an application for a grant to the department that includes a 
proposed plan for expenditure of the grant moneys.  The department shall review 
any application and plan submitted to determine whether that application and plan 
meet the criteria established under par. (b).  The department shall review the use of 
grant money provided under this subsection to ensure that the money is used 
according to the approved plan.
SECTION  2240 .  165.91 (2) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
165.91 (2) (c)  In any fiscal year, if there are moneys in the appropriation 
account under s. 20.455 (2) (kw) in excess of the amount specified in par. (a), the 
department of justice shall provide a payment to each tribe that operates a tribal 
law enforcement agency in an amount equal to the total excess moneys divided by 
the number of eligible tribes under this paragraph.
SECTION  2241 .  165.935 of the statutes is created to read:
165.935   Crime victim services grants.   (1)  The department of justice 
shall award grants to eligible organizations from the appropriations under s. 20.455 
(5) (gL) and (km) to provide services for crime victims.  The department of justice 
shall award grants under this section in a manner consistent with 34 USC 20103.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1371 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2241
(2)  An organization is eligible for a grant under this section if the department 
of justice determines that the organization meets the criteria under 34 USC 20103 
(b).
(3)  The grant awards under this section may supplement federal funds under 
34 USC 20103 but may not replace the funds.
SECTION  2242 .  165.95 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.95   (title)  Alternatives to prosecution and incarceration; grant 
program programs.
SECTION  2243 .  165.95 (1) (ac) of the statutes is created to read:
165.95 (1) (ac)  XEvidence-based practice Y means a practice that has been 
developed using research to determine its efficacy for achieving positive measurable 
outcomes, including reducing recidivism and increasing public safety.
SECTION  2244 .  165.95 (2) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2245 .  165.95 (2m) of the statutes is created to read:
165.95 (2m)   No later than January 1, 2027, each county shall operate an 
alternatives to prosecution and incarceration program described under sub. (3).  No 
later than December 31, 2026, and by each December 31 thereafter, each county 
shall certify to the director of state courts that is has, or will have, a qualifying 
alternatives to prosecution and incarceration program by January 1 of the next 
calendar year.  The director of state courts may consult with the department of 
justice to confirm whether the county operates a qualifying alternatives to 
prosecution and incarceration program.
SECTION  2246 .  165.95 (2r) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2247 .  165.95 (3) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1372 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2247
165.95 (3) (intro.)  A county or tribe shall be eligible for a grant under sub. (2) 
program under this section, including a suspended and deferred prosecution 
program and a program based on principles of restorative justice, shall be 
considered an alternatives to prosecution and incarceration program if all of the 
following apply:
SECTION  2248 .  165.95 (3) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2249 .  165.95 (3) (ag) of the statutes is created to read:
165.95 (3) (ag)  The program operates within the continuum from arrest to 
discharge from supervision and provides an alternative to prosecution, revocation, 
or incarceration through the use of pre-charge and post-charge diversion programs 
or treatment courts and community-based corrections.
SECTION  2250 .  165.95 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.95 (3) (b)  The program employs evidence-based practices and is designed 
to promote and facilitate the implementation of effective criminal justice policies 
and practices that maximize justice and public and victim safety, reduce prison and 
jail populations, reduce prosecution and incarceration costs, and reduce recidivism, 
and improve the welfare of participants [ families by meeting the comprehensive 
needs of participants.
SECTION  2251 .  165.95 (3) (bd) of the statutes is created to read:
165.95 (3) (bd)  The program identifies each target population served by the 
program and identifies the evidence-based practices the program employs for each 
target population it serves.
SECTION  2252 .  165.95 (3) (cm) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
165.95 (3) (cm) 2.  If the program is administered by a tribe, the criminal 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1373 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2252
justice oversight committee shall consist of a representative of the judiciary, a 
representative of criminal prosecution and criminal defense, a social services 
provider, a behavioral health treatment provider, a law enforcement officer, a 
representative of corrections, and other members that the oversight committee 
determines are appropriate to the program.
SECTION  2253 .  165.95 (3) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.95 (3) (d)  Services provided under the program are consistent with 
evidence-based practices in substance abuse and mental health treatment, as 
determined by the department of health services, and the program provides 
intensive case management.
SECTION  2254 .  165.95 (3) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.95 (3) (e)  The program uses graduated sanctions and incentives to 
promote successful substance abuse treatment success.
SECTION  2255 .  165.95 (3) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.95 (3) (g)  The program is designed to integrate all mental health services 
provided to program participants by state and local government agencies, tribes, 
and other organizations.  The program shall require regular communication and 
coordination among a participant [s substance abuse treatment providers, other 
service providers, the case manager, and any person designated under the program 
to monitor the person [s compliance with his or her obligations under the program, 
and any probation, extended supervision, and parole agent assigned to the 
participant.
SECTION  2256 .  165.95 (3) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1374 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2256
165.95 (3) (h)  The program provides substance abuse and mental health 
treatment services through providers that who use evidence-based practices in the 
delivery of services and, where applicable, who are certified by the department of 
health services or licensed to provide the services approved under the program.
SECTION  2257 .  165.95 (3) (i) of the statutes is renumbered 165.95 (3d) and 
amended to read:
165.95 (3d)  The An alternatives to prosecution and incarceration program 
requires under this section may require participants to pay a reasonable amount for 
their treatment, based on their income and available assets, and pursues to pursue 
and uses use all possible resources available through insurance and federal, state, 
and local aid programs, including cash, vouchers, and direct services.
SECTION  2258 .  165.95 (3) (j) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.95 (3) (j)  The program is developed with input from, and implemented in 
collaboration with, one or more circuit court judges, the district attorney, the state 
public defender, local and, if applicable, tribal law enforcement officials, county 
agencies and, if applicable, tribal agencies responsible for providing social services, 
including services relating to alcohol and other drug addiction substance use 
disorder, child welfare, mental health, and the Wisconsin Works program, the 
departments of corrections, children and families, and health services, private 
social services agencies, and substance abuse use disorder treatment providers.
SECTION  2259 .  165.95 (3) (k) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2260 .  165.95 (5) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 165.95 (3) (cm) 
(intro.) and amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1375 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2260
165.95 (3) (cm) (intro.)   A county or tribe that receives a grant under this 
section shall create an The program identifies a criminal justice oversight 
committee to develop and implement the program design and advise the county or 
tribe in administering and evaluating its program.  Each The membership of each 
criminal justice oversight committee shall be as follows:
1.  If the program is administered by a county, the criminal justice oversight 
committee shall consist of a circuit court judge, the district attorney or his or her 
designee, the state public defender or his or her designee, a local law enforcement 
official, a representative of the county, a representative of the tribe, if applicable, a 
representative of each other county agency and, if applicable, tribal agency 
responsible for providing social services, including services relating to child welfare, 
mental health, and the Wisconsin Works program, representatives of the 
department of corrections and department of health services, a representative from 
private social services agencies, a representative of substance abuse behavioral 
health treatment providers, and other members to be determined by the county or 
tribe the oversight committee determines are appropriate for the program.
SECTION  2261 .  165.95 (5) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 165.95 (5) (ag) and 
amended to read:
165.95 (5) (ag)  A county, or a tribe that receives a grant under this section s. 
16.075, shall comply with state audits and shall submit an annual report to the 
department of justice and to the criminal justice oversight committee created under 
par. (a) identified in sub. (3) (cm) regarding the impact of the program on jail and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1376 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2261
prison populations and its progress in attaining the goals specified in sub. (3) (b) 
and (f).
SECTION  2262 .  165.95 (5) (bg) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.95 (5) (bg)  A county, or a tribe that receives a grant under this section s. 
16.075, shall submit data requested by the department of justice to the department 
of justice each month.  The department of justice may request any data regarding 
the project funded by the grant that is necessary to evaluate the project alternatives 
to prosecution and incarceration program and prepare the reports under sub. (5p).
SECTION  2263 .  165.95 (5m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2264 .  165.95 (5p) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.95 (5p) (a)  The department of justice shall, annually, analyze the data 
submitted under sub. (5) (bg) and prepare a progress report that evaluates the 
effectiveness of the grant program alternatives to prosecution and incarceration 
programs in this state.  The department of justice shall make the report available to 
the public.
SECTION  2265 .  165.95 (5p) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.95 (5p) (b)  The department of justice shall, every 5 years, prepare a 
comprehensive report that analyzes the data it receives under sub. (5) (bg) and the 
annual reports it produces under par. (a).  The department of justice shall include 
in this comprehensive report a cost benefit analysis of the grant program 
alternatives to prosecution and incarceration programs and shall submit the report 
to the chief clerk of each house of the legislature for distribution to the legislature 
under s. 13.172 (2).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1377 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2266
SECTION  2266 .  165.95 (6) of the statutes is renumbered 16.075 (7) and 
amended to read:
16.075 (7)  A county or tribe may, with one or more other counties or tribes, 
jointly apply for and receive a grant under this section sub. (2).  Upon submitting a 
joint application, each county or tribe shall include with the application a written 
agreement specifying each tribe [s and each county department [s role in developing, 
administering, and evaluating the program.  The oversight committee established 
under sub. (5) (a) identified in s. 165.95 (3) (cm) shall consist of representatives 
from each county or tribe.
SECTION  2267 .  165.95 (7) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2268 .  165.95 (7m) of the statutes is renumbered 16.075 (3) and 
amended to read:
16.075 (3)  Beginning in fiscal year 2012-13, the The department of justice 
shall, every 5 years, make grants under this section sub. (2) available to any county 
or tribe on a competitive basis.  A county or tribe may apply for a grant under this 
subsection sub. (2) regardless of whether the county or tribe has received a grant 
previously under this section sub. (2).
SECTION  2269 .  165.95 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
165.95 (8)  The department of justice shall assist a county or tribe receiving a 
grant under this section that operates an alternatives to prosecution and 
incarceration program in obtaining funding from other sources for its program.
SECTION  2270 .  165.95 (9) of the statutes is renumbered 16.075 (4) and 
amended to read:
16.075 (4)  The department of justice shall inform any county or tribe that is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1378 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2270
applying for a grant under this section sub. (2) whether the county or tribe meets 
the requirements established under sub. s. 165.95 (3), regardless of whether the 
county or tribe receives a grant.
SECTION  2271 .  165.95 (10) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2272 .  165.955 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2273 .  175.33 of the statutes is created to read:
175.33   Transfer of firearms.   (1)  In this section:
(a)  XFamily member Y means a spouse, parent, grandparent, sibling, child, or 
grandchild.  The relationship may be by blood, marriage, or adoption.
(b)  XFirearm Y includes the frame or receiver of a firearm.
(c)  XFirearms dealer Y has the meaning given in s. 175.35 (1) (ar).
(d)  XTransfer Y has the meaning given in s. 175.35 (1) (br).
(2)  No person may transfer ownership of a firearm, or be transferred 
ownership of a firearm, unless one of the following applies:
(a)  The transferor is a firearms dealer.
(b)  The transferor makes the transfer to or through a firearms dealer and 
obtains a receipt under s. 175.35 (2j) (b).
(c)  The transfer of ownership of the firearm is one of the transfers listed under 
s. 175.35 (2t).
(d)  The transferor is transferring ownership of the firearm to a family 
member by gift, bequest, or inheritance, the transferee is not prohibited from 
possessing a firearm under s. 941.29 or federal law, and the transferee is at least 18 
years of age.
(3)  Any person who intentionally violates sub. (2) is guilty of a misdemeanor 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1379 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2273
and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $10,000 and may be imprisoned 
for not more than 9 months.  The person is also prohibited under s. 941.29 from 
possessing a firearm for a period of 2 years.
SECTION  2274 .  175.35 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35   (title)  Purchase of handguns firearms.
SECTION  2275 .  175.35 (1) (at) of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (1) (at)  XFirearms restrictions record search Y means a search of 
department of justice records to determine whether a person seeking to purchase a 
handgun is prohibited from possessing a firearm under s. 941.29 or is included in 
the database under s. 165.64 (3).  XFirearms restrictions record search Y includes a 
criminal history record search, a search to determine whether a person is 
prohibited from possessing a firearm under s. 51.20 (13) (cv) 1., 2007 stats., a search 
in the national instant criminal background check system to determine whether a 
person has been ordered not to possess a firearm under s. 51.20 (13) (cv) 1., 51.45 
(13) (i) 1., 54.10 (3) (f) 1., or 55.12 (10) (a), a search to determine whether the person 
is subject to an injunction under s. 813.12 or 813.122, or a tribal injunction, as 
defined in s. 813.12 (1) (e), issued by a court established by any federally recognized 
Wisconsin Indian tribe or band, except the Menominee Indian tribe of Wisconsin, 
that includes notice to the respondent that he or she is subject to the requirements 
and penalties under s. 941.29 and that has been filed with the circuit court under s. 
813.128 (3g), a search to determine whether the person is subject to a temporary 
restraining order or injunction under s. 813.124, and a search to determine whether 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1380 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2275
the person is prohibited from possessing a firearm under s. 813.123 (5m) or 813.125 
(4m).
SECTION  2276 .  175.35 (1) (at) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), is amended to read:
175.35 (1) (at)  XFirearms restrictions record search Y means a search of 
department of justice records to determine whether a person seeking to purchase 
receive the transfer of a handgun firearm is prohibited from possessing a firearm 
under s. 941.29 or is included in the database under s. 165.64 (3).  XFirearms 
restrictions record search Y includes a criminal history record search, a search to 
determine whether a person is prohibited from possessing a firearm under s. 51.20 
(13) (cv) 1., 2007 stats., a search in the national instant criminal background check 
system to determine whether a person has been ordered not to possess a firearm 
under s. 51.20 (13) (cv) 1., 51.45 (13) (i) 1., 54.10 (3) (f) 1., or 55.12 (10) (a), a search 
to determine whether the person is subject to an injunction under s. 813.12 or 
813.122, or a tribal injunction, as defined in s. 813.12 (1) (e), issued by a court 
established by any federally recognized Wisconsin Indian tribe or band, except the 
Menominee Indian tribe of Wisconsin, that includes notice to the respondent that 
he or she is subject to the requirements and penalties under s. 941.29 and that has 
been filed with the circuit court under s. 813.128 (3g), a search to determine 
whether the person is subject to a temporary restraining order or injunction under 
s. 813.124, and a search to determine whether the person is prohibited from 
possessing a firearm under s. 813.123 (5m) or 813.125 (4m).
SECTION  2277 .  175.35 (1) (br) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1381 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2277
175.35 (1) (br)  XTransfer Y includes to sell, assign, pledge, lease, loan, give 
away, or otherwise dispose of.
SECTION  2278 .  175.35 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is renumbered 175.35 (2) 
(am) and amended to read:
175.35 (2) (am)  When a firearms dealer sells transfers a handgun firearm, 
including the frame or receiver of a firearm, he or she may not transfer possession of 
that handgun firearm to any other person until all of the following have occurred: 
requirements under par. (cm) have been met.
SECTION  2279 .  175.35 (2) (a), (b) and (c) of the statutes are renumbered 
175.35 (2) (cm) 1., 2. and 3.
SECTION  2280 .  175.35 (2) (bm) of the statutes is created to read:
175.35 (2) (bm)  When a person transfers a firearm, including the frame or 
receiver of a firearm, through a firearms dealer, the transfer of possession of that 
firearm may not be made until all of the requirements of par. (cm) have been met.
SECTION  2281 .  175.35 (2) (cm) (intro.) of the statutes is created to read:
175.35 (2) (cm) (intro.)  All of the following must occur before a firearm may be 
transferred under par. (am) or (bm):
SECTION  2282 .  175.35 (2) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2) (d)  The If the firearm is a handgun, 48 hours have elapsed from the 
time that the firearms dealer has received an approval a confirmation number 
regarding the firearms restrictions record search under sub. (2g) (c) from the 
department of justice or, if the firearm is not a handgun, the firearms dealer has 
received a confirmation number regarding the firearms restrictions record search 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1382 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2282
under sub. (2g) (c) from the department of justice and, for any firearm, the firearms 
dealer has not been notified that the person is prohibited under state or federal law 
from possessing a firearm or that the department needs an extension under sub. 
(2g) (c) 4. c.
SECTION  2283 .  175.35 (2) (d) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), is renumbered 175.35 (2) (cm) 4.
SECTION  2284 .  175.35 (2g) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2g) (a)  The department of justice shall promulgate rules prescribing 
procedures under sub. (2) (cm) 1. for a transferee to provide and a firearms dealer to 
inspect identification containing a photograph of the transferee.
SECTION  2285 .  175.35 (2g) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2g) (b) 1.  The department of justice shall promulgate rules 
prescribing a notification form for use under sub. (2) (cm) 2. and 3. requiring the 
transferee to provide his or her name, date of birth, gender, race and social security 
number and other identification necessary to permit an accurate firearms 
restrictions record search under par. (c) 3. and the required notification under par. 
(c) 4.  The department of justice shall make the forms available at locations 
throughout the state.
SECTION  2286 .  175.35 (2g) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2g) (b) 2.  The department of justice shall ensure that each notification 
form under subd. 1. requires the transferee to indicate that he or she is not 
purchasing receiving a transfer of the firearm with the purpose or intent to transfer 
the firearm to a person who is prohibited from possessing a firearm under state or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1383 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2286
federal law and that each notification form informs the transferee that making a 
false statement with regard to this purpose or intent is a Class H felony.
SECTION  2287 .  175.35 (2g) (c) 4. a. and b. of the statutes are amended to read:
175.35 (2g) (c) 4. a.  If the search indicates that the transferee is prohibited 
from possessing a firearm under s. 941.29 or is included in the database under s. 
165.64 (3), the department shall provide the firearms dealer with a unique 
nonapproval number.  The department may not disclose to the firearms dealer the 
reason the transferee is prohibited from possessing a firearm under s. 941.29.
b.  If the search indicates that the transferee is not prohibited from possessing 
a firearm under s. 941.29 and is not included in the database under s. 165.64 (3), 
the department shall provide the firearms dealer with a unique approval number.
SECTION  2288 .  175.35 (2g) (c) 4. c. of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2g) (c) 4. c.  If the search indicates that it is unclear whether the 
person is prohibited under state or federal law from possessing a firearm and the 
department needs more time than provided under sub. (2) (d) to make the 
determination, the department shall make every reasonable effort to determine 
whether the person is prohibited under state or federal law from possessing a 
firearm and notify the firearms dealer of the results as soon as practicable but no 
later than 5 working days after the search was requested.
SECTION  2289 .  175.35 (2g) (c) 4. c. of the statutes, as affected by 2025 
Wisconsin Act .... (this act), is amended to read:
175.35 (2g) (c) 4. c.  If the search indicates that it is unclear whether the 
person is prohibited under state or federal law from possessing a firearm and the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1384 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2289
department needs more time than provided under sub. (2) (d) (cm) 4. to make the 
determination, the department shall make every reasonable effort to determine 
whether the person is prohibited under state or federal law from possessing a 
firearm and notify the firearms dealer of the results as soon as practicable but no 
later than 5 working days after the search was requested.
SECTION  2290 .  175.35 (2i) of the statutes is renumbered 175.35 (2i) (a) and 
amended to read:
175.35 (2i) (a)  The department shall charge a firearms dealer a $10 fee for 
each firearms restrictions record search that the firearms dealer requests under 
sub. (2) (c) (cm) 3.
(b) 1.  The firearms dealer may collect the fee under par. (a) from the 
transferee.
(c)  The department may refuse to conduct firearms restrictions record 
searches for any firearms dealer who fails to pay any fee under this subsection par. 
(a) within 30 days after billing by the department.
SECTION  2291 .  175.35 (2i) (b) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
175.35 (2i) (b) 2.  If the transfer is made under sub. (2) (bm), the firearms 
dealer may collect from the transferor the fee under par. (a) and any additional 
amount to cover any costs he or she incurs in processing the transfer.
SECTION  2292 .  175.35 (2j) of the statutes is renumbered 175.35 (2j) (a).
SECTION  2293 .  175.35 (2j) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
175.35 (2j) (b)  If a person transfers a firearm through a firearms dealer under 
sub. (2) (bm), or transfers a firearm to a firearms dealer, the firearms dealer shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1385 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2293
provide the person a written receipt documenting the dealer [s participation in the 
transfer.
SECTION  2294 .  175.35 (2k) (ar) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2k) (ar) 2.  Check each notification form received under sub. (2j) (a) 
against the information recorded by the department regarding the corresponding 
request for a firearms restrictions record search under sub. (2g).  If the department 
previously provided a unique approval number regarding the request and nothing 
in the completed notification form indicates that the transferee is prohibited from 
possessing a firearm under s. 941.29, the department shall destroy all records 
regarding that firearms restrictions record search within 30 days after receiving 
the notification form.
SECTION  2295 .  175.35 (2k) (c) 2. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2k) (c) 2. a.  A statement that the Wisconsin law enforcement agency 
is conducting an investigation of a crime in which a handgun firearm was used or 
was attempted to be used or was unlawfully possessed.
SECTION  2296 .  175.35 (2k) (c) 2. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2k) (c) 2. b.  A statement by a division commander or higher authority 
within the Wisconsin law enforcement agency that he or she has a reasonable 
suspicion that the person who is the subject of the information request has obtained 
or is attempting to obtain a handgun firearm.
SECTION  2297 .  175.35 (2k) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2k) (g)  If a search conducted under sub. (2g) indicates that the 
transferee is prohibited from possessing a firearm under s. 941.29, the attorney 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1386 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2297
general or his or her designee may disclose to a law enforcement agency that the 
transferee has attempted to obtain a handgun firearm.
SECTION  2298 .  175.35 (2k) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2k) (h)  If a search conducted under sub. (2g) indicates a felony charge 
without a recorded disposition and the attorney general or his or her designee has 
reasonable grounds to believe the transferee may pose a danger to himself, herself 
or another, the attorney general or his or her designee may disclose to a law 
enforcement agency that the transferee has obtained or has attempted to obtain a 
handgun firearm.
SECTION  2299 .  175.35 (2L) of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (2L)  The department of justice shall promulgate rules providing for 
the review of nonapprovals under sub. (2g) (c) 4. a.  Any person who is denied the 
right to purchase receive a transfer of a handgun firearm because the firearms 
dealer received a nonapproval number under sub. (2g) (c) 4. a. may request a 
firearms restrictions record search review under those rules.  If the person 
disagrees with the results of that review, the person may file an appeal under rules 
promulgated by the department.
SECTION  2300 .  175.35 (2t) (a), (b) and (c) of the statutes are amended to read:
175.35 (2t) (a)  Transfers of any handgun firearm classified as an antique by 
regulations of the U.S. department of the treasury.
(b)  Transfers of any handgun firearm between firearms dealers or between 
wholesalers and dealers.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1387 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2300
(c)  Transfers of any handgun firearm to law enforcement or armed services 
agencies.
SECTION  2301 .  175.35 (3) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
175.35 (3) (b) 2.  A person who violates sub. (2e) by intentionally providing 
false information regarding whether he or she is purchasing receiving a transfer of 
the firearm with the purpose or intent to transfer the firearm to another who the 
person knows or reasonably should know is prohibited from possessing a firearm 
under state or federal law is guilty of a Class H felony.  The penalty shall include a 
fine that is not less than $500.
SECTION  2302 .  175.355 of the statutes is created to read:
175.355   Search self-assigned firearm exclusion database for purchase 
of firearms.  (1)   In this section:
(a)  XFirearms dealer Y has the meaning given in s. 175.35 (1) (ar).
(b)  XHandgun Y has the meaning given in s. 175.35 (1) (b).
(2)  When a firearms dealer sells a firearm that is not a handgun, the firearms 
dealer shall request the department of justice to search the database under s. 
165.64 (3) and may not transfer a firearm to a person who is included in the 
database under s. 165.64 (3).
SECTION  2303 .  175.355 of the statutes, as created by 2025 Wisconsin Act .... 
(this act), is repealed.
SECTION  2304 .  175.36 of the statutes is created to read:
175.36   Reporting stolen or lost firearm.   (1) (a)  A person who owns a 
firearm and who discovers that the firearm is stolen or lost shall, within 24 hours of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1388 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2304
the discovery, report the theft or loss to a law enforcement agency that has 
jurisdiction over the area in which the firearm was stolen or lost.
(b)  If a person who has reported a theft or loss under par. (a) recovers the 
firearm, the person shall report as soon as practicable to a law enforcement agency 
the date on which the firearm was recovered.
(2) (a)  A law enforcement agency that receives under sub. (1) (a) a report of a 
stolen or lost firearm shall do all of the following:
1.  Create a file that includes, if known, the date on which the firearm was 
stolen or lost; the caliber, make, and model of the firearm; the serial number of the 
firearm; any distinguishing mark on the firearm; and the location at which the 
firearm was purchased by, or transferred to, the person making the report under 
sub. (1) (a).
2.  As soon as practicable, forward a copy of the file created under subd. 1. to 
the department of justice for inclusion in a database under s. 165.83 (2) (dd).
(b)  A law enforcement agency that receives under sub. (1) (b) a report of a 
recovered firearm shall report to the department of justice the date on which the 
firearm was recovered.
(3)  A person who reports under sub. (1) (a) a stolen or lost firearm, when he or 
she knows that the report is false, is guilty of violating s. 946.41.
(4)  A person who violates sub. (1) (a) is guilty of one of the following:
(a)  For a first offense, a Class A misdemeanor.
(b)  For a 2nd or subsequent offense, a Class I felony.
SECTION  2305 .  175.37 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1389 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2305
175.37   (title)  Warning Requirements whenever transferring a 
firearm.
SECTION  2306 .  175.37 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 175.37 (1) (intro.) and 
amended to read:
175.37 (1) (intro.)  Upon the retail commercial sale or retail commercial 
transfer of any firearm, the seller or transferor shall provide to the buyer or 
transferee all of the following:
(a)  A written warning in block letters not less than one-fourth inch in height:  
XIF YOU LEAVE A LOADED FIREARM WITHIN THE REACH OR EASY 
ACCESS OF A CHILD YOU MAY BE FINED OR IMPRISONED OR BOTH IF 
THE CHILD IMPROPERLY DISCHARGES, POSSESSES OR EXHIBITS THE 
FIREARM. Y
SECTION  2307 .  175.37 (1) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
175.37 (1) (b)  A secure, lockable container that is designed to store a firearm 
or a trigger lock for the firearm.
SECTION  2308 .  175.37 (1) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
175.37 (1) (c)  A written notice of the requirements under s. 175.36 (1) and of 
the penalties under s. 175.36 (4).
SECTION  2309 .  175.375 of the statutes is created to read:
175.375   Storage of firearms by retail entity.   Any person who engages in 
the retail commercial sale or transfer of firearms shall ensure, when the place of 
business is unattended, that each firearm that is located in the place of business is 
secured using one of the following methods:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1390 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2309
(1)  The firearm is stored in a locked fireproof safe, in a locked steel gun 
cabinet, or in a vault in the business premises.
(2)  The firearm is stored in a display case that is made with a steel frame that 
is no thinner than 12 gauge, is fitted with a hardened steel lock where the case 
opens to access the firearm, and is fitted either with smash-proof polycarbonate 
panels that are at least one-quarter inch thick or with glass that is protected with a 
security or protective laminate film that is specifically designed to delay entry and 
unauthorized access, with a minimum thickness of at least eight-thousandths of an 
inch, and that includes an anchoring system on all seams of each glass panel and is 
also anchored to the frame.  If the location of the retail store is at street level, one of 
the following is also required:
(a)  Concrete or hardened steel bollards, or other barriers such as security 
planters or other devices with a similar structural integrity of bollards, that protect 
the location [s front entrance, any floor-to-ceiling windows, and any other doors that 
could be breached by a vehicle.
(b)  Locking steel roll-down doors that are installed on all perimeter doors and 
floor-to-ceiling windows, unless the installation would violate a state or local fire 
code.
(3)  The firearm is secured with a hardened steel rod or cable of at least one-
eighth inch in diameter through the trigger guard of the firearm.  The steel rod or 
cable shall be secured with a hardened steel lock that has a shackle.  The lock and 
shackle shall be protected or shielded from the use of a bolt cutter, and the rod or 
cable shall be anchored in a manner that prevents the removal of the firearm from 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1391 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2309
the premises.  If the location of the retail store is at street level, one of the following 
is also required:
(a)  Concrete or hardened steel bollards, or other barriers such as security 
planters or other devices with a similar structural integrity of bollards, that protect 
the location [s front entrance, any floor-to-ceiling windows, and any other doors that 
could be breached by a vehicle.
(b)  Locking steel roll-down doors that are installed on all perimeter doors and 
floor-to-ceiling windows, unless the installation would violate a state or local fire 
code.
(4)  The firearm is stored in a windowless room that is equipped with a steel 
security door fitted with a deadbolt lock and that does not have a door exposed to 
the outside of the building.
(5)  The firearm is stored behind a steel roll-down door or security gate, or the 
firearm is secured in a locked steel gun rack by use of a hardened steel bar.
SECTION  2310 .  175.60 (7) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
175.60 (7) (d)  A fee for a background check that is equal to the fee charged 
under s. 175.35 (2i) (a).
SECTION  2311 .  175.60 (9g) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
175.60 (9g) (a) 2.  The department shall conduct a criminal history record 
search and shall search its records and conduct a search in the national instant 
criminal background check system to determine whether the applicant is 
prohibited from possessing a firearm under federal law; whether the applicant is 
prohibited from possessing a firearm under s. 941.29; whether the applicant is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1392 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2311
prohibited from possessing a firearm under s. 51.20 (13) (cv) 1., 2007 stats.; 
whether the applicant has been ordered not to possess a firearm under s. 51.20 (13) 
(cv) 1., 51.45 (13) (i) 1., 54.10 (3) (f) 1., or 55.12 (10) (a); whether the applicant is 
subject to an injunction under s. 813.12 or 813.122, or a tribal injunction, as defined 
in s. 813.12 (1) (e), issued by a court established by any federally recognized 
Wisconsin Indian tribe or band, except the Menominee Indian tribe of Wisconsin, 
that includes notice to the respondent that he or she is subject to the requirements 
and penalties under s. 941.29 and that has been filed with the circuit court under s. 
813.128 (3g); whether the applicant is subject to a temporary restraining order or 
injunction under s. 813.124; and whether the applicant is prohibited from 
possessing a firearm under s. 813.123 (5m) or 813.125 (4m); and to determine if the 
court has prohibited the applicant from possessing a dangerous weapon under s. 
969.02 (3) (c) or 969.03 (1) (c) and if the applicant is prohibited from possessing a 
dangerous weapon as a condition of release under s. 969.01.
SECTION  2312 .  175.60 (11) (a) 2. f. of the statutes is amended to read:
175.60 (11) (a) 2. f.  The individual becomes subject to an a temporary 
restraining order or injunction described in s. 941.29 (1m) (f) or is ordered not to 
possess a firearm under s. 813.123 (5m) or 813.125 (4m).
SECTION  2313 .  175.60 (15) (b) 4. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
175.60 (15) (b) 4. b.  A fee for a background check that is equal to the fee 
charged under s. 175.35 (2i) (a).
SECTION  2314 .  182.004 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
182.004 (6)  Stock may be issued and leases made to husband and wife 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1393 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2314
spouses, and to the survivor of them, in which event title shall descend the same as 
in like conveyances of real property subject to ch. 766.  Otherwise, title to the stock 
and lease shall descend to the persons to whom a homestead of the stockholder 
would descend except as provided in ch. 766.  The interest of a tenant in the lease 
and stock shall be exempt from execution to the same extent as a homestead in real 
estate.
SECTION  2315 .  182.01 (8) of the statutes is created to read:
182.01 (8)  INFORMATION  TO BE PROVIDED  WITH  BUSINESS  FORMATION  FILINGS .  
The department shall provide informational materials and resources on worker 
misclassification to each person who files with the department any of the following:
(a)  Articles of incorporation under s. 180.0202 or 181.0202.
(b)  Articles of organization under s. 183.0201.
(c)  A statement of qualification under s. 178.0901.
(d)  A certificate of limited partnership under s. 179.0201.
SECTION  2316 .  185.983 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
185.983 (1) (intro.)  Every voluntary nonprofit health care plan operated by a 
cooperative association organized under s. 185.981 shall be exempt from chs. 600 to 
646, with the exception of ss. 601.04, 601.13, 601.31, 601.41, 601.42, 601.43, 601.44, 
601.45, 611.26, 611.67, 619.04, 623.11, 623.12, 628.34 (10), 631.17, 631.89, 631.93, 
631.95, 632.72 (2), 632.722, 632.729, 632.745 to 632.749, 632.7498, 632.775, 632.79, 
632.795, 632.798, 632.848, 632.85, 632.851, 632.853, 632.855, 632.861, 632.862, 
632.867, 632.87 (2) to (6) (8), 632.871, 632.885, 632.89, 632.891, 632.895 (5) and (8) 
to (17), 632.896, and 632.897 (10) and chs. 609, 620, 630, 635, 645, and 646, but the 
sponsoring association shall:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1394 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2317
SECTION  2317 .  189.02 (3m) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
189.02 (3m)  (a)  Except as provided in s. 15.03, the public service commission 
department shall have no control or jurisdiction over the office in matters relating 
to railroad regulation.
SECTION  2318 .  189.02 (3m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
189.02 (3m)  (b)  Notwithstanding par. (a), the commissioner of railroads shall 
seek the input of, and give considerable weight to the advice given by, the 
chairperson of the public service commission secretary on matters relating to the 
employment of persons by the office.
SECTION  2319 .  189.02 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
189.02 (4)  Decisions of the office are not appealable to the public service 
commission department.  Decisions of the office are subject to judicial review under 
ch. 227.
SECTION  2320 .  189.02 (7) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2321 .  190.11 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
190.11 (3)  The office of the commissioner of railroads shall collect a fee of $1 
per page filed under sub. (1).  All fees received under this subsection shall be 
credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.155 (2) (g) 20.395 (7) (ag).
SECTION  2322 .  194.025 of the statutes is amended to read:
194.025   Discrimination prohibited.   No motor carrier may engage in any 
practice, act or omission which results in discrimination on the basis of race, creed, 
sex or, national origin, or status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 
(3r).
SECTION  2323 .  195.60 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1395 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2323
195.60 (1)  Whenever the office in a proceeding upon its own motion, on 
complaint, or upon an application to it deems it necessary in order to carry out the 
duties imposed upon it by law to investigate the books, accounts, practices and 
activities of, or make appraisals of the property of any railroad or water carrier or to 
render any engineering or accounting services to any railroad or water carrier, the 
railroad or water carrier shall pay the expenses attributable to such investigation, 
appraisal or service.  The office shall ascertain such expenses, and shall render a 
bill therefor, by mail, to the railroad or water carrier, either at the conclusion of the 
investigation, appraisal or services, or during its progress.  The bill shall constitute 
notice of assessment and demand of payment thereof.  The railroad or water carrier 
shall, within 30 days after the mailing thereof, pay to the office the amount of the 
special expense for which it is billed.  Ninety percent of the payment shall be 
credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.155 (2) (g) 20.395 (7) (ag).  The 
total amount, in any one calendar year, for which any railroad or water carrier 
becomes liable, by reason of costs incurred by the office within such calendar year, 
shall not exceed four-fifths of one percent of its gross operating revenues derived 
from intrastate operations in the last preceding calendar year.  Where, under this 
subsection, costs are incurred within any calendar year, which are in excess of four-
fifths of one percent of such gross operating revenues, the excess costs shall not be 
chargeable as part of the remainder under sub. (2) but shall be paid out of the 
general appropriation to the office.  Nothing in this subsection shall prevent the 
office from rendering bills in one calendar year for costs incurred within a previous 
year.  For the purpose of calculating the costs of investigations, appraisals and other 
services under this subsection, 90 percent of the costs determined shall be costs of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1396 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2323
the office and 10 percent of the costs determined shall be costs of state government 
operations.
SECTION  2324 .  195.60 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
195.60 (2)  The office shall annually, within 90 days after the close of each 
fiscal year, ascertain the total of its expenditures during such year which are 
reasonably attributable to the performance of its duties relating to railroads and 
water carriers.  For purposes of such calculation, 90 percent of the expenditures so 
determined shall be expenditures of the office and 10 percent of the expenditures so 
determined shall be expenditures for state government operations.  The office shall 
deduct therefrom all amounts chargeable to railroads and water carriers under sub. 
(1) and s. 201.10 (3).  A sum equal to the remainder plus 10 percent of the 
remainder shall be assessed by the office to the several railroads and water carriers 
in proportion to their respective gross operating revenues during the last calendar 
year, derived from intrastate operations.  Such assessment shall be paid within 30 
days after the bill has been mailed to the several railroads and water carriers, 
which bill shall constitute notice of assessment and demand of payment thereof.  
The total amount which may be assessed to the railroads and water carriers under 
authority of this subsection shall not exceed 1.85 percent of the total gross 
operating revenues of such railroads and water carriers, during such calendar year, 
derived from intrastate operations.  Ninety percent of the payment shall be credited 
to the appropriation account under s. 20.155 (2) (g) 20.395 (7) (ag).  The railroads 
and water carriers shall furnish such financial information as the office requires for 
purposes of this section.
SECTION  2325 .  196.025 (8) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1397 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2325
196.025 (8)  N UCLEAR  ENERGY  FEASIBILITY  STUDY .  The commission shall 
conduct a nuclear power plant feasibility study, and may contract with a 3rd party 
to conduct all or part of the study.
SECTION  2326 .  196.027 (1) (d) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
196.027 (1) (d) 3.  The retiring of any existing electric generating facility 
fueled by nonrenewable combustible energy resources.
SECTION  2327 .  196.027 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
196.027 (1) (f)  XEnvironmental control cost Y means capital cost, including 
capitalized cost relating to regulatory assets, incurred or expected to be incurred by 
an energy utility in undertaking an environmental control activity and, with 
respect to an environmental control activity described in par. (d) 2. or 3., includes 
the unrecovered value of property that is retired, including any demolition or 
similar cost that exceeds the salvage value of the property.  XEnvironmental control 
costY does not include any monetary penalty, fine, or forfeiture assessed against an 
energy utility by a government agency or court under a federal or state 
environmental statute, rule, or regulation.
SECTION  2328 .  196.372 (3) (e) 2. (intro.) and b. of the statutes are 
consolidated, renumbered 196.372 (3) (e) 2. and amended to read:
196.372 (3) (e) 2.  The commission may not approve an application under subd. 
1. unless the application satisfies all of the following conditions:  b.  Any states that 
any loan provided may not be forgiven by the water public utility or the 
municipality.
SECTION  2329 .  196.372 (3) (e) 2. a. of the statutes is repealed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1398 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2330
SECTION  2330 .  196.374 (1) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
196.374 (1) (d)  XEnergy efficiency program Y means a program for reducing 
the usage or, reducing the demand, or increasing the efficiency of the usage of 
energy by a customer or member of an energy utility, municipal utility, or retail 
electric cooperative, including programs that promote the development or use of 
energy storage systems by residential customers.  XEnergy efficiency program Y does 
not include load management.
SECTION  2331 .  196.374 (1) (dm) of the statutes is created to read:
196.374 (1) (dm)  XEnergy storage system Y means a commercially available 
technology that uses mechanical, chemical, or thermal processes for absorbing 
energy and storing it for a period of time for use at a later time.
SECTION  2332 .  196.374 (3) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
196.374 (3) (b) 2.  The commission shall require each energy utility to spend 
1.2 2.4 percent of its annual operating revenues derived from retail sales to fund the 
utility[s programs under sub. (2) (b) 1., the utility [s ordered programs, the utility [s 
share of the statewide energy efficiency and renewable resource programs under 
sub. (2) (a) 1., and the utility [s share, as determined by the commission under subd. 
4., of the costs incurred by the commission in administering this section.
SECTION  2333 .  196.376 of the statutes is created to read:
196.376   Residential and commercial energy improvements.   The 
commission may authorize a public utility to finance energy improvements at a 
specific residential or commercial location and recover the cost of those 
improvements over time through a surcharge periodically placed on the public 
utility customer [s account for that location.  The commission shall promulgate rules 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1399 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2333
to establish the requirements for the utility financing programs authorized under 
this section.  Those requirements shall include at least all of the following:
(1)  The surcharge shall be assigned to a location, not to an individual 
customer.
(2)  Energy improvements are eligible for financing only if the improvements 
are estimated to save an amount that exceeds the surcharge.
(3)  The financing offered to a customer under this section may not increase 
the customer [s risk or debt.
SECTION  2334 .  196.379 of the statutes is created to read:
196.379   Energy innovation grant program.   The office of energy 
innovation in the commission shall administer the energy innovation grant 
program.
SECTION  2335 .  196.491 (2) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
196.491 (2) (title)  S TRATEGIC  ENERGY  ASSESSMENT  AND INTEGRATED  
RESOURCE  PLANS .
SECTION  2336 .  196.491 (2) (a) 3s. of the statutes is created to read:
196.491 (2) (a) 3s.  Review the integrated resource plans submitted by electric 
utilities under par. (h) to help inform the strategic energy assessment.
SECTION  2337 .  196.491 (2) (h) of the statutes is created to read:
196.491 (2) (h) 1.  Each electric utility shall prepare and file an integrated 
resource plan with the commission.  The commission shall by order establish 
integrated resource plan content and filing requirements, including filing 
deadlines.  An integrated resource plan shall include a set of resource options that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1400 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2337
an electric utility could use to meet the service needs of its customers over the next 
5-year, 10-year, and 15-year periods, including an explanation of the supply-and-
demand circumstances under which, and the extent to which, each resource option 
would be used to meet those service needs.  Resource options that could be used to 
meet service needs include using, refurbishing, and constructing electric generating 
plants and equipment; buying electricity generated by other entities; controlling 
customer loads; and implementing customer energy conservation.  The commission 
shall approve, reject, or modify an electric utility [s integrated resource plan 
consistent with the public interest.  The commission [s acceptance of an integrated 
resource plan under this paragraph does not constitute issuance of a certificate 
under s. 196.49 or issuance of a certificate of public convenience and necessity 
under sub. (3).
2.  An integrated resource plan under this paragraph shall include all of the 
following:
a.  A long-term forecast of the electric utility [s sales and peak demand under 
various reasonable scenarios.
b.  Details regarding the amount of peak demand reduction the electric utility 
expects to achieve and the electric utility [s proposals for achieving the reduction in 
peak demand, including through load management and demand response.
c.  If the plan identifies constructing a generation facility as a resource option, 
the type of generation technology proposed for the generation facility, the proposed 
capacity of the generation facility, and the projected fuel costs for the proposed 
generation facility under various reasonable scenarios.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1401 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2337
d.  Projected electricity purchased or produced by the electric utility that is 
generated from a renewable energy resource.  If the electric utility projects the total 
level of electricity purchased or produced from a renewable energy resource to 
decrease over the periods described in subd. 1. a., the electric utility shall explain 
why the decrease is in the best interests of ratepayers.
e.  Details regarding the impacts of energy efficiency programs on the electric 
utility[s electricity sales and peak demand under various reasonable scenarios, 
including the total amount of customer energy savings and the associated costs of 
the energy efficiency programs.
f.  Projected energy and capacity purchased or produced by the electric utility 
from a cogeneration resource.
g.  An analysis of potential new or upgraded electricity transmission options 
for the electric utility.
h.  Data regarding the electric utility [s current generation portfolio, including 
the age, capacity factor, licensing status, and estimated remaining operating time 
for each electric generating facility in the portfolio.
i.  Plans for meeting current and future capacity needs, including cost 
estimates for any power purchase agreement, any proposed construction or major 
investment, and any transmission or distribution infrastructure necessary to 
support proposed construction or major investments.
j.  An analysis of the cost, capacity factor, and viability of all reasonable 
options available to meet projected energy and capacity needs, including existing 
electric generating facilities in this state.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1402 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2337
k.  Projected total costs for each scenario reviewed under this subdivision.
L.  If applicable, projected long-term natural gas transportation contracts or 
natural gas storage that the electric utility will hold to provide an adequate supply 
of natural gas to new electric generating facilities.
m.  Any other information required by the commission by order.
3.  This paragraph does not apply to cooperative associations.
SECTION  2338 .  196.491 (3) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
196.491 (3) (g)  The commission shall take final action on an application filed 
under par. (a) 1. within 180 days after the application is determined or considered 
to be complete under par. (a) 2.  If the commission fails to take final action within 
the 180-day period, the commission is considered to have issued a certificate of 
public convenience and necessity with respect to the application, unless the 
chairperson of the commission extends the time period for no more than an 2 
additional 180 days 180-day extensions for good cause.  If the commission fails to 
take final action within the extended period, the commission is considered to have 
issued a certificate of public convenience and necessity with respect to the 
application.
SECTION  2339 .  196.504 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
196.504 (2) (a)  To make broadband expansion grants to eligible applicants for 
the purpose of constructing broadband infrastructure in unserved areas designated 
under par. (e).  Grants awarded under this section shall be paid from the 
appropriations under ss. 20.155 (3) (a), (r) , and (rm) and 20.866 (2) (z), in the 
amount allocated under s. 20.866 (2) (z) 5.
SECTION  2340 .  196.5048 of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1403 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2340
196.5048   Internet service provider registration.   No person may provide 
Internet service in this state unless the person registers with the commission.
SECTION  2341 .  196.94 of the statutes is created to read:
196.94   Brownfield renewable energy generation grants.   (1)  
DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XBrownfields Y has the meaning given in s. 238.13 (1) (a).
(b)  XElectric provider Y means any of the following:
1.  A public utility that generates, transmits, or distributes electric energy at 
wholesale or retail.
2.  A cooperative association incorporated under ch. 185 to do business in this 
state that carries on the business of generating, transmitting, or distributing 
electric energy to its members at wholesale or retail.
(c)  XRenewable energy Y has the meaning given in s. 196.378 (1) (fg).
(2)  GRANT  PROGRAM .  (a)  From the appropriation under s. 20.155 (3) (b), the 
commission shall make grants to developers and electric providers for redeveloping 
brownfields for renewable energy generation.
(b)  A grant under this section may be used only for remediating brownfields, 
developing renewable energy infrastructure on brownfields, and technical support.
SECTION  2342 .  198.06 (5) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
198.06 (5) (a)  The board of canvassers shall cause a certified copy of the order 
declaring the result of the election to be filed in the office of the secretary of state 
administration.  A certified copy of the order shall also be filed with the clerk of 
each municipality included in the district, with the county clerk, and with the 
commission.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1404 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2343
SECTION  2343 .  198.06 (5) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
198.06 (5) (b)  If the district as finally constituted comprises a smaller area 
than originally proposed because of the failure of one or more municipalities to 
approve the district at the election, the commission shall, within 10 days following 
the filing of the order under par. (a) with the commission, file its approval or 
disapproval of the district as created by the election with the secretary of state 
administration, the clerk of each municipality included in the district and the 
county clerk.  If the commission approves, upon the filing of the approval the 
creation and incorporation of the district shall be considered complete.  If the 
commission disapproves, the district shall be considered dissolved.  Except as 
provided in par. (c), the approval or disapproval of the commission shall be final.
SECTION  2344 .  198.06 (5) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
198.06 (5) (d)  If a district has been approved by all of the municipalities 
within the district as proposed, the creation and incorporation of the district shall 
be considered complete upon the filing of the result of the election with the 
secretary of state administration by the board of canvassers.
SECTION  2345 .  198.06 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
198.06 (7)  INFORMALITIES  DISREGARDED , LIMITATION  OF ACTION  TO TEST  
VALIDITY  OF DISTRICT .  No informality in any proceeding or in the conduct of the 
election, not substantially affecting adversely the legal rights of any citizen, shall be 
held to invalidate the creation of any district, and any proceedings wherein the 
validity of the creation is denied shall be commenced within 3 months from the date 
of filing the order of the board of canvassers with the secretary of state 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1405 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2345
administration, otherwise the creation and the legal existence of the district shall 
be held to be valid and in every respect legal and incontestable.
SECTION  2346 .  198.08 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
198.08 (3)  APPOINTMENT , VOTE  BY MUNICIPAL  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS .  In the 
selection of a director for a subdistrict each chief executive shall have one vote for 
each 1,000 voters within that chief executive [s municipality, or the part of the 
municipality that is located in the subdistrict.  A three-fourths vote shall be 
necessary for the selection of a director.  The result of the selection of the director 
shall be certified to by the chairperson and clerk of the meeting and immediately 
filed with the secretary of state administration and the clerk of each municipality in 
the district.
SECTION  2347 .  198.20 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
198.20 (2)  The election, and all matters pertaining to the election not 
otherwise provided for in this section, shall be held and conducted and the result 
ascertained and declared in accordance with s. 198.06 (3) and (4).  The ordinance 
and the result of the referendum shall be certified to the secretary of state 
administration.  After certification, the consolidation shall be considered complete.  
Consolidation shall not affect the preexisting rights or liabilities of any power 
districts and actions on those rights and liabilities may be commenced or completed 
as though no consolidation had been effected.
SECTION  2348 .  198.22 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
198.22 (7)  BOUNDARIES .  Immediately upon the organization of the board of 
directors the clerk shall cause to be recorded in the office of the register of deeds of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1406 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2348
each county in which any part of said district is located, and shall file with the 
secretary of state administration, the department of natural resources, the 
governor and the clerk of each town, city or village, wholly or partly within the 
district, a certified copy of the boundaries of the district as set forth in the notice of 
election pursuant to sub. (3) or as thereafter amended.  Thereafter, in any 
proceeding wherein the boundaries of the district are concerned, it shall be 
sufficient in describing said boundaries to refer to such record of such description.
SECTION  2349 .  200.25 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
200.25 (5)  OATH OF OFFICE .  Before assuming the duties of the office, each 
commissioner shall take and subscribe the oath of office required under s. 19.01 and 
file the oath with the secretary of state administration, duly certified by the official 
administering the oath.
SECTION  2350 .  224.28 of the statutes is created to read:
224.28   Catastrophe savings accounts.  (1)   In this section:
(a)  XAccountY has the meaning given in s.  705.01 (1).
(b)  XCatastrophic event Y means any of the following:
1.  A tornado.
2.  A hurricane.
3.  A severe storm that results in flooding, damaging hail, extreme wind, or 
extremely cold temperatures.
(c)  XFinancial institution Y has the meaning given in s. 705.01 (3).
(d)  XPolicyY means an insurance policy that includes coverage for loss or 
damage to property resulting from a catastrophic event.
(e)  XRecordY has the meaning given in s. 137.11 (12).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1407 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2350
(2)  A person may designate an account established by the person at a 
financial institution as a catastrophe savings account if all of the following apply:
(a)  The account is identified in the financial institution [s records as a 
catastrophe savings account or the person, at the time the account is established, 
creates a record that the account is a catastrophe savings account and then retains 
this record.
(b)  The account is established solely to hold savings to be used for the 
purposes under sub. (3) and no deposits are made in the account other than deposits 
intended to be used for the purposes under sub. (3).
(3)  Deposits in a catastrophe savings account may be withdrawn from the 
account only for any of the following purposes:
(a)  To pay for repair costs or other losses relating to damage to the account 
owner[s property caused by a catastrophic event to the extent the costs or losses are 
not covered by a policy or are self-insured losses.  
(b)  To pay any portion of a policy [s deductible relating to damage to the 
account owner [s property caused by a catastrophic event. 
(4)  If a person who establishes a catastrophe savings account maintains a 
policy providing coverage for a catastrophic event, the annual deposits in the 
catastrophe savings account may not exceed the following:
(a)  If the policy deductible is not more than $1,000, $2,000.
(b)  If the policy deductible exceeds $1,000, $15,000 or twice the amount of the 
policy deductible, whichever is less.
(5)  A catastrophe savings account established under sub. (2) may be a joint 
account, as defined in s. 705.01 (4), or a marital account, as defined in s. 705.01 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1408 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2350
(4m), but no individual may be an account owner of more than one catastrophe 
savings account.
SECTION  2351 .  224.77 (1) (o) of the statutes is amended to read:
224.77 (1) (o)  In the course of practice as a mortgage banker, mortgage loan 
originator, or mortgage broker, except in relation to housing designed to meet the 
needs of elderly individuals, treat a person unequally solely because of sex, race, 
color, handicap, sexual orientation, as defined in s. 111.32 (13m), religion, national 
origin, age, or ancestry, the person [s lawful source of income, or the sex, marital 
status, status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), or status as 
a victim of domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) 
(u), of the person maintaining a household.
SECTION  2352 .  227.01 (13) (n) of the statutes is amended to read:
227.01 (13) (n)  Fixes or approves rates, prices or charges, including a 
maximum weekly benefit amount or wage limitation under s. 108.05 (2), unless a 
statute specifically requires them to be fixed or approved by rule.
SECTION  2353 .  227.01 (13) (t) of the statutes is created to read:
227.01 (13) (t)  Ascertains and determines prevailing wage rates under ss. 
66.0903, 103.49, 103.50, and 229.8275, except that any action or inaction which 
ascertains and determines prevailing wage rates under ss. 66.0903, 103.49, 103.50, 
and 229.8275 is subject to judicial review under s. 227.40.
SECTION  2354 .  227.01 (13) (zxm) of the statutes is created to read:
227.01 (13) (zxm)  Establishes or adjusts a renewal date or renewal cycle for 
credentials that are subject to periodic renewal under s. 440.08 (2) (a) 1n.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1409 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2355
SECTION  2355 .  227.139 (5) of the statutes is created to read:
227.139 (5)  This section does not apply to a proposed rule of the department 
of natural resources establishing acceptable levels and standards, performance 
standards, enforcement standards and preventative action limits, monitoring 
requirements, and required response actions for any perfluoroalkyl or 
polyfluoroalkyl substance or group or class of such substances in groundwater, 
drinking water, surface water, air, soil, or sediment.
SECTION  2356 .  227.19 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
227.19 (7)  NONAPPLICATION .  This section does not apply to rules promulgated 
under s. 227.24, or to rules proposed by the department of natural resources 
establishing acceptable levels and standards, performance standards, enforcement 
standards and preventative action limits, monitoring requirements, and required 
response actions for any perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or group or 
class of such substances in groundwater, drinking water, surface water, air, soil, or 
sediment.
SECTION  2357 .  227.26 (5) of the statutes is created to read:
227.26 (5)  This section does not apply to a proposed rule of the department of 
natural resources establishing acceptable levels and standards, performance 
standards, enforcement standards and preventative action limits, monitoring 
requirements, and required response actions for any perfluoroalkyl or 
polyfluoroalkyl substance or group or class of such substances in groundwater, 
drinking water, surface water, air, soil, or sediment.
SECTION  2358 .  229.682 (2) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1410 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2358
229.682 (2)  PREVAILING  WAGE .  The construction of a baseball park facility 
that is financed in whole or in part by a district is subject to s. 66.0903.
SECTION  2359 .  229.8275 of the statutes is created to read:
229.8275   Prevailing wage.   A district may not enter into a contract under s. 
229.827 with a professional football team, as described in s. 229.823, or a related 
party that requires the team or related party to acquire and construct or renovate 
football stadium facilities that are part of any facilities that are leased by the 
district to the team or to a related party unless the professional football team or 
related party agrees to all of the following:
(1)  Not to allow any employee working on the football stadium facilities who 
would be entitled to receive the prevailing wage rate under s. 66.0903 and who 
would not be required or allowed to work more than the prevailing hours of labor, if 
the football stadium facilities were a project of public works subject to s. 66.0903, to 
be paid less than the prevailing wage rate or to be required or allowed to work more 
than the prevailing hours of labor, except as allowed under s. 66.0903 (4) (a).
(2)  To require any contractor, subcontractor, or agent of a contractor or 
subcontractor performing work on the football stadium facilities to keep and allow 
inspection of records in the same manner as a contractor, subcontractor, or agent of 
a contractor or subcontractor performing work on a project of public works that is 
subject to s. 66.0903 is required to keep and allow inspection of records under s. 
66.0903 (10).
(3)  To comply with s. 66.0903 in the same manner as a local governmental 
unit contracting for the erection, construction, remodeling, repairing, or demolition 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1411 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2359
of a project of public works is required to comply with s. 66.0903 and to require any 
contractor, subcontractor, or agent of a contractor or subcontractor performing work 
on the football stadium facilities to comply with s. 66.0903 in the same manner as a 
contractor, subcontractor, or agent of a contractor or subcontractor performing work 
on a project of public works that is subject to s. 66.0903 is required to comply with s. 
66.0903.
SECTION  2360 .  230.01 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
230.01 (2) (b)  It is the policy of this state to provide for equal employment 
opportunity by ensuring that all personnel actions including hire, tenure or term, 
and condition or privilege of employment be based on the ability to perform the 
duties and responsibilities assigned to the particular position without regard to 
age, race, creed or religion, color, disability, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual 
orientation, gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), gender identity, as 
defined in s. 111.32 (7k), or political affiliation.
SECTION  2361 .  230.01 (2) (b) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), is amended to read:
230.01 (2) (b)  It is the policy of this state to provide for equal employment 
opportunity by ensuring that all personnel actions including hire, tenure or term, 
and condition or privilege of employment be based on the ability to perform the 
duties and responsibilities assigned to the particular position without regard to 
age, race, creed or religion, color, disability, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual 
orientation, gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), gender identity, as 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1412 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2361
defined in s. 111.32 (7k), or political affiliation, or status as a holder or nonholder of 
a license under s. 343.03 (3r).
SECTION  2362 .  230.046 (3) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
230.046 (3) (f)  Provide an apprenticeship program as described under subch. 
I of ch. 106.  If an appointing authority provides an apprenticeship program under 
this paragraph, the appointing authority shall do all of the following:
1.  Create a defined training plan for employees who participate in the 
apprenticeship program, to include on-the-job and off-the-job training, that is 
designed for the employees to gain the skills necessary for the trade, craft, or 
business and for completion of the apprenticeship.
2.  During working hours and without loss of pay, provide to employees who 
participate in the apprenticeship program off-the-job, specialized training courses 
that are necessary for completion of the apprenticeship program.
SECTION  2363 .  230.046 (5) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
230.046 (5) (b)  Training Except as provided in par. (bm), training costs 
estimated to exceed $500, excluding the compensation of participants, have been 
included in the budget and approved by the legislature or the joint committee on 
finance, and such costs will be encumbered for training purposes on the records of 
the agency;
SECTION  2364 .  230.046 (5) (bm) of the statutes is created to read:
230.046 (5) (bm)  Training costs for an apprenticeship program provided 
under sub. (3) (f) estimated to exceed $1,000, excluding the compensation of 
participants, have been included in the budget and approved by the legislature or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1413 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2364
the joint committee on finance, and such costs will be encumbered for training 
purposes on the records of the agency;
SECTION  2365 .  230.08 (2) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
230.08 (2) (g)  One stenographer appointed by each elective executive officer, 
except the secretary of state and the state treasurer; and one deputy or assistant 
appointed by each elective executive officer, except the state treasurer, secretary of 
state, attorney general, and superintendent of public instruction.
SECTION  2366 .  230.08 (2) (L) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
230.08 (2) (L) 4.  Higher educational aids board, created under s. 15.67 
attached to the department of administration under s. 15.03.
SECTION  2367 .  230.08 (2) (yh) of the statutes is created to read:
230.08 (2) (yh)  The director of Native American affairs in the department of 
administration.
SECTION  2368 .  230.08 (2) (ym) of the statutes is created to read:
230.08 (2) (ym)  The ombudsperson of the office of the ombudsperson for 
corrections.
SECTION  2369 .  230.10 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
230.10 (2)  The compensation plan in effect at the time that a representative is 
recognized or certified to represent employees in a collective bargaining unit and 
the employee salary and benefit provisions under s. 230.12 (3) (e) in effect at the 
time that a representative is certified to represent employees in a collective 
bargaining unit under subch. V of ch. 111 constitute the compensation plan or 
employee salary and benefit provisions for employees in the collective bargaining 
unit until a collective bargaining agreement becomes effective for that unit.  If a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1414 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2369
collective bargaining agreement under subch. V of ch. 111 expires prior to the 
effective date of a subsequent agreement, and a representative continues to be 
recognized or certified to represent employees specified in s. 111.81 (7) (a) or (ag) or 
certified to represent employees specified in s. 111.81 (7) (ar) to (f) in that collective 
bargaining unit, the wage rates of the employees in such a unit shall be frozen until 
a subsequent agreement becomes effective, and the compensation plan under s. 
230.12 and salary and benefit changes adopted under s. 230.12 (3) (e) do not apply 
to employees in the unit.
SECTION  2370 .  230.12 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
230.12 (1) (f)  Trainee pay rates.   When Except with respect to apprentices as 
provided in par. (fm), when applicable, the compensation plan may provide for rates 
of pay below the minimum of the pay range to reflect the appropriate beginning pay 
for persons appointed to positions who do not possess the qualifications necessary 
to perform the work at the classification level for which they are being trained.  Pay 
increases up to the minimum of the pay range shall be provided to compensate for 
the attainment of additional qualifications during the trainee period.
SECTION  2371 .  230.12 (1) (fm) of the statutes is created to read:
230.12 (1) (fm)  Apprentice pay rates.   The compensation plan may provide for 
rates of pay to reflect the appropriate beginning pay for persons appointed to 
apprenticeship programs under s. 230.046 (3) (f) during the apprenticeship.  Pay 
increases shall be provided to compensate for the attainment of additional 
qualifications during the apprenticeship.
SECTION  2372 .  230.12 (9m) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1415 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2372
230.12 (9m)   PAID FAMILY  AND MEDICAL  LEAVE .  (a)  Definitions.   In this 
subsection:
1.  XFamily leave Y means leave from employment for a reason specified in s. 
103.10 (3) (b).
2.  XMedical isolation Y means any of the following:
a.  When a health care professional, a local health officer, or the department of 
health services advises that an individual seclude herself or himself from others 
when the individual is awaiting the result of a diagnostic test for a communicable 
disease or when the individual is infected with a communicable disease.
b.  When a local health officer or the department of health services advises 
that an individual isolate or quarantine under s. 252.06.
c.  When an individual [s employer advises that the individual not come to the 
workplace due to a concern that the individual may have been exposed to or infected 
with a communicable disease.
3.  XMedical leave Y means leave from employment when an employee is in 
medical isolation or has a serious health condition that makes the employee unable 
to perform his or her employment duties, or makes the employee unable to perform 
the duties of any suitable employment.
4.  XSerious health condition Y has the meaning given in s. 103.10 (1) (g).
(b)  Program.   The administrator shall develop and recommend to the joint 
committee on employment relations a program, administered by the division, that 
provides paid family and medical leave for 8 weeks per year to employees whose 
compensation is established under this section or s. 20.923 (2) or (3) but does not 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1416 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2372
include employees of the Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.  
The approval process for the program is the same as that provided under sub. (3) 
(b), and, if approved, the program shall be incorporated into the compensation plan 
under sub. (1).
(c)  Rules.   The administrator may promulgate rules to implement the family 
and medical leave program under par. (b).
SECTION  2373 .  230.18 of the statutes is amended to read:
230.18   Discrimination prohibited.   No question in any form of application 
or in any evaluation used in the hiring process may be so framed as to elicit 
information concerning the partisan political or religious opinions or affiliations of 
any applicant nor may any inquiry be made concerning such opinions or affiliations 
and all disclosures thereof of those opinions or affiliations shall be discountenanced 
except that the director may evaluate the competence and impartiality of applicants 
for positions such as clinical chaplain in a state institutional program.  No 
discriminations may be exercised in the recruitment, application, or hiring process 
against or in favor of any person because of the person [s political or religious 
opinions or affiliations or because of age, sex, disability, race, color, sexual 
orientation, gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), gender identity, as 
defined in s. 111.32 (7k), national origin, or ancestry except as otherwise provided.
SECTION  2374 .  230.18 of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act .... 
(this act), is amended to read:
230.18   Discrimination prohibited.   No question in any form of application 
or in any evaluation used in the hiring process may be so framed as to elicit 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1417 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2374
information concerning the partisan political or religious opinions or affiliations of 
any applicant nor may any inquiry be made concerning such opinions or affiliations 
and all disclosures of those opinions or affiliations shall be discountenanced except 
that the director may evaluate the competence and impartiality of applicants for 
positions such as clinical chaplain in a state institutional program.  No 
discriminations may be exercised in the recruitment, application, or hiring process 
against or in favor of any person because of the person [s political or religious 
opinions or affiliations or because of age, sex, disability, race, color, sexual 
orientation, gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), gender identity, as 
defined in s. 111.32 (7k), national origin, or ancestry, or status as a holder or 
nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r) except as otherwise provided.
SECTION  2375 .  230.26 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
230.26 (4)  Fringe benefits specifically authorized by statutes, with the 
exception of leave of absence with pay owing to sickness, deferred compensation 
plan participation under subch. VII of ch. 40, worker [s compensation, 
unemployment insurance, group insurance, retirement, and social security 
coverage, shall be denied employees hired under this section.  Such employees may 
not be considered permanent employees and do not qualify for tenure, vacation, 
paid holidays, sick leave, performance awards, or the right to compete in 
promotional processes.
SECTION  2376 .  230.28 (6) of the statutes is created to read:
230.28 (6)  An employee appointed to a position in an apprenticeship program 
under s. 230.046 (3) (f) shall be on a probationary period for the duration of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1418 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2376
apprenticeship and may be separated during that period without the right of 
appeal, at the discretion of the appointing authority.  Upon completion of the 
apprenticeship, the employee shall gain permanent status.  
SECTION  2377 .  230.35 (1) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
230.35 (1) (a) 1.  One hundred four hours each year for a full year of service 
during the first  5  2 years of service;
SECTION  2378 .  230.35 (1) (a) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
230.35 (1) (a) 1m.  One hundred twenty hours each year for a full year of 
service during the next 3 years of service;
SECTION  2379 .  230.35 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
230.35 (1) (c)  When the rate of annual leave changes during the 2nd, 5th, 
10th, 15th, 20th or 25th calendar year, the annual leave for that year shall be 
prorated.
SECTION  2380 .  230.35 (1m) (bt) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
230.35 (1m)  (bt) 1.  120 hours each year for a full year of service during the 
first  5  2 years of service;
SECTION  2381 .  230.35 (1m) (bt) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
230.35 (1m)  (bt) 1m.  136 hours each year for a full year of service during the 
next 3 years of service;
SECTION  2382 .  230.35 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
230.35 (2)  Leave of absence with pay owing to sickness and leave of absence 
without pay, other than annual leave and leave under s. 103.10, shall be regulated 
by rules of the administrator, except that unused sick leave shall accumulate from 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1419 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2382
year to year.  Beginning on the effective date of this subsection .... [LRB inserts 
date], employees appointed under s. 230.26 (1) shall accrue leave of absence with 
pay owing to sickness at the same rate as permanent and project state employees, 
and such leave shall be prorated if the employee works less than full-time.  After 
July 1, 1973, employees appointed to career executive positions under the program 
established under s. 230.24 or positions designated in s. 19.42 (10) (L) or 20.923 (4), 
(7), (8), and (9) or authorized under s. 230.08 (2) (e) shall have any unused sick leave 
credits restored if they are reemployed in a career executive position or in a position 
under s. 19.42 (10) (L) or 20.923 (4), (7), (8), and (9) or authorized under s. 230.08 (2) 
(e), regardless of the duration of their absence.  Restoration of unused sick leave 
credits if reemployment is to a position other than those specified above shall be in 
accordance with rules of the administrator.
SECTION  2383 .  230.35 (4) (a) 3m. of the statutes is created to read:
230.35 (4) (a) 3m.  June 19.
SECTION  2384 .  230.35 (4) (a) 5m. of the statutes is created to read:
230.35 (4) (a) 5m.  November 11.
SECTION  2385 .  230.35 (4) (a) 10. of the statutes is amended to read:
230.35 (4) (a) 10.  The day following if January 1, June 19, July 4, November 
11, or December 25 falls on Sunday.
SECTION  2386 .  230.35 (4) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
230.35 (4) (c)  Except as provided in the compensation plan under s. 230.12, all 
employees except limited term employees shall receive  9  11 paid holidays annually 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1420 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2386
in addition to any other authorized paid leave, the time to be at the discretion of the 
appointing authorities.
SECTION  2387 .  230.35 (4) (d) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
230.35 (4) (d) (intro.)  In addition to the holidays granted under par. (c) and 
except as provided in the compensation plan under s. 230.12, all employees except 
limited term employees shall earn 3.5 4.5 paid personal holidays each calendar 
year, plus one additional paid personal holiday each calendar year in recognition of 
Veterans Day.  Eligibility to take the personal holidays during the year earned is 
subject to the following:
SECTION  2388 .  230.35 (4) (d) 5. of the statutes is created to read:
230.35 (4) (d) 5.  Employees serving in an apprenticeship program under s. 
230.046 (3) (f) shall earn paid personal holidays as set forth in this paragraph for 
probationary employees, subject to the limitations in this paragraph for 
probationary employees.
SECTION  2389 .  231.01 (5w) of the statutes is amended to read:
231.01 (5w)   XParticipating educational institution Y means an entity 
authorized by state law to provide or operate an educational facility, or an affiliate 
of that entity, that is located in this state, headquartered in this state, or serves a 
population in this state, and that undertakes the financing and construction or 
acquisition of a project or undertakes the refunding or refinancing of obligations or 
of a mortgage or of advances as provided in this chapter.
SECTION  2390 .  231.01 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
231.01 (6)  XParticipating health institution Y means an entity authorized by 
state law to provide or operate a health facility, or an affiliate of that entity, that is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1421 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2390
located in this state, headquartered in this state, or serves a population in this 
state, and that undertakes the financing and construction or acquisition of a project 
or undertakes the refunding or refinancing of obligations or of a mortgage or of 
advances as provided in this chapter.
SECTION  2391 .  231.01 (6m) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
231.01 (6m)  (intro.)  XParticipating nonprofit institution Y means a nonprofit 
entity, or an affiliate of a nonprofit entity, that is located in this state, 
headquartered in this state, or serves a population in this state, and that 
undertakes the financing and construction or acquisition of a project or undertakes 
the refunding or refinancing of obligations or of a mortgage or of advances as 
provided in this chapter and is not any of the following:
SECTION  2392 .  231.01 (6t) of the statutes is amended to read:
231.01 (6t)  XParticipating research institution Y means an entity organized 
under the laws of this state that provides or operates a research facility, or an 
affiliate of that entity, that is located in this state, headquartered in this state, or 
serves a population in this state, and that undertakes the financing and 
construction or acquisition of a project or undertakes the refunding or refinancing 
of obligations or of a mortgage or of advances as provided in this chapter.
SECTION  2393 .  231.02 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
231.02 (2)  The authority shall appoint an executive director and associate 
executive director who shall not be members of the authority and who shall serve at 
the pleasure of the authority.  They shall receive such compensation as in an 
amount determined by the authority fixes, except that the compensation of the 
executive director shall not exceed the maximum of the salary range established 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1422 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2393
under s. 20.923 (1) for positions assigned to executive salary group 6 and the 
compensation of each other employee of the authority shall not exceed the 
maximum of the salary range established under s. 20.923 (1) for positions assigned 
to executive salary group 3.  The executive director or associate executive director or 
other person designated by resolution of the authority shall keep a record of the 
proceedings of the authority and shall be custodian of all books, documents, and 
papers filed with the authority, the minute book or journal of the authority, and its 
official seal.  The executive director or associate executive director or other person 
may cause copies to be made of all minutes and other records and documents of the 
authority and may give certificates under the official seal of the authority to the 
effect that such copies are true copies, and all persons dealing with the authority 
may rely upon such certificates.
SECTION  2394 .  231.03 (6) (L) of the statutes is created to read:
231.03 (6) (L)  Finance working capital needs of any participating health 
institution, participating educational institution, participating nonprofit 
institution, or participating research institution in an amount not to exceed that 
approved by the authority.  Bonds issued for purposes of this paragraph are not 
exempt from taxation under s. 71.05 (1) (c) 14., 71.26 (1m) (o), or 71.45 (1t) (n).
SECTION  2395 .  231.03 (13) of the statutes is amended to read:
231.03 (13)  Make loans to any participating health institution, participating 
educational institution, participating nonprofit institution, or participating 
research institution for the cost of a project or to finance working capital under sub. 
(6) (L) in accordance with an agreement between the authority and the 
participating health institution, participating educational institution, participating 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1423 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2395
nonprofit institution, or participating research institution.  The authority may 
secure the loan by a mortgage or other security arrangement on the health facility, 
educational facility, nonprofit facility, or research facility granted by the 
participating health institution, participating educational institution, participating 
nonprofit institution, or participating research institution to the authority.  The 
loan may not exceed, as applicable, the total cost of the project as determined by the 
participating health institution, participating educational institution, participating 
nonprofit institution, or participating research institution and approved by the 
authority or the amount of working capital approved by the authority under sub. (6) 
(L).
SECTION  2396 .  234.18 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 234.18 and amended 
to read:
234.18   The authority may not issue notes and bonds that are secured by a 
capital reserve fund to which s. 234.15 (4) applies if, upon issuance, the total 
aggregate outstanding principal amount of notes and bonds that are secured by a 
capital reserve fund to which s. 234.15 (4) applies would exceed $600,000,000 
$1,300,000,000.  This section does not apply to bonds and notes issued to refund 
outstanding notes and bonds.
SECTION  2397 .  234.18 (2) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2398 .  234.18 (3) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2399 .  234.29 of the statutes is amended to read:
234.29   Equality of occupancy and employment.   The authority shall 
require that occupancy of housing projects assisted under this chapter be open to all 
regardless of sex, race, religion, sexual orientation, status as a victim of domestic 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1424 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2399
abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (u), or creed, and that 
contractors and subcontractors engaged in the construction of economic 
development or housing projects, shall provide an equal opportunity for 
employment, without discrimination as to sex, race, religion, sexual orientation, 
gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), gender identity, as defined in s. 
111.32 (7k), or creed.
SECTION  2400 .  234.29 of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act .... 
(this act), is amended to read:
234.29   Equality of occupancy and employment.   The authority shall 
require that occupancy of housing projects assisted under this chapter be open to all 
regardless of sex, race, religion, sexual orientation, status as a holder or nonholder 
of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), status as a victim of domestic abuse, sexual 
assault, or stalking, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (u), or creed, and that contractors 
and subcontractors engaged in the construction of economic development or 
housing projects, shall provide an equal opportunity for employment, without 
discrimination as to sex, race, religion, sexual orientation, gender expression, as 
defined in s. 111.32 (7j), gender identity, as defined in s. 111.32 (7k), or creed.
SECTION  2401 .  234.45 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
234.45 (1) (e)  XQualified development Y means a qualified low-income housing 
project under section 42 (g) of the Internal Revenue Code that is financed with tax-
exempt bonds, pursuant to section 42 (i) (2) described in section 42 (h) (4) (A) of the 
Internal Revenue Code, allocated the credit under section 42 of the Internal 
Revenue Code, and located in this state; except that the authority may waive, in the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1425 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2401
qualified allocation plan under section 42 (m) (1) (B) of the Internal Revenue Code, 
the requirements of tax-exempt bond financing and federal credit allocation to the 
extent the authority anticipates that sufficient volume cap under section 146 of the 
Internal Revenue Code will not be available to finance low-income housing projects 
in any year.
SECTION  2402 .  234.45 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
234.45 (4)  ALLOCATION  LIMITS .  In any calendar year, the aggregate amount of 
all state tax credits for which the authority certifies persons in allocation 
certificates issued under sub. (3) in that year may not exceed $42,000,000 
$100,000,000, including all amounts each person is eligible to claim for each year of 
the credit period, plus the total amount of all unallocated state tax credits from 
previous calendar years and plus the total amount of all previously allocated state 
tax credits that have been revoked or cancelled or otherwise recovered by the 
authority.
SECTION  2403 .  234.622 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
234.622 (4) (b)  A veteran, as defined in s. 45.01 (12) (a) to (f) (fm), who has 
been accepted into the program.
SECTION  2404 .  234.625 (4) (b) 9. of the statutes is amended to read:
234.625 (4) (b) 9.  If the participant is a veteran, as defined in s. 45.01 (12) (a) 
to (f) (fm), who is not 65 years of age or older, at a time before any of the events 
under subds. 1. to 7. occurs, as determined under policies and procedures 
established by the authority.
SECTION  2405 .  234.66 (1) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 234.66 (1) (b) 
(intro.) and amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1426 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2405
234.66 (1) (b) (intro.)  XDeveloper Y means a person other than a governmental 
unit that constructs or creates residential housing. and that is any of the following:
SECTION  2406 .  234.66 (1) (b) 1. of the statutes is created to read:
234.66 (1) (b) 1.  A person other than a governmental unit.
SECTION  2407 .  234.66 (1) (b) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
234.66 (1) (b) 2.  A tribal housing authority created by a tribal council.
SECTION  2408 .  234.66 (1) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
234.66 (1) (cm)  XGovernmental unit Y means a city, village, town, county, or 
federally recognized American Indian tribe or band in this state.
SECTION  2409 .  234.66 (1) (e) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
234.66 (1) (e) 2.  The housing is not subject to taxation under ch. 70 because it 
is designated as reservation lands, as defined in s. 165.92 (1) (a), or as trust lands, 
as defined in s. 165.92 (1) (d).
SECTION  2410 .  234.66 (1) (g) (intro.) and 1. of the statutes are consolidated, 
renumbered 234.66 (1) (g) and amended to read:
234.66 (1) (g)  XResidential housing Y means new single-family or multifamily 
housing for rent or sale that satisfies all of the following: 1.  Is is subject to taxation 
under ch. 70 or is not subject to taxation under ch. 70 because it is designated as 
reservation lands, as defined in s. 165.92 (1) (a), or trust lands, as defined in s. 
165.92 (1) (d).
SECTION  2411 .  234.66 (1) (g) 2. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2412 .  234.66 (1) (g) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2413 .  234.66 (4) (a) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
234.66 (4) (a) 5.  The eligible governmental unit has reduced the cost of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1427 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2413
residential housing in connection with the eligible project by voluntarily revising 
zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, or other land development regulations 
to increase development density, expedite approvals, reduce impact, water 
connection, and inspection fees, or reduce parking, building, or other development 
costs with respect to the development of residential housing supported by the 
project.  For purposes of this subdivision, the governmental unit in cooperation with 
the developer shall submit to the authority a cost reduction analysis in a form 
prescribed by the authority and signed by the developer and the head of the 
governmental unit [s governing body that shows the cost reduction measures, 
including time saving measures, undertaken by the governmental unit on or after 
January 1, 2023 2015, that have reduced the cost of residential housing in 
connection with the eligible project.  The signed analysis shall clearly show for each 
time saving or cost reduction measure the estimated time or dollar amount saved by 
the developer and the estimated percentage reduction in housing costs.
SECTION  2414 .  234.66 (4) (a) 7. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2415 .  234.66 (4) (c) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
234.66 (4) (c) 2.  No loan awarded under this subsection may exceed 20 33 
percent of the total cost of development, including land purchase, of the residential 
housing supported by the eligible project.
SECTION  2416 .  234.66 (4) (cm) of the statutes is created to read:
234.66 (4) (cm)  The developer may use up to 25 percent of loan moneys for 
private infrastructure that is not and will not be owned, maintained, or provided to 
or by a governmental unit and is not in a rural area and transferred to public use 
but that otherwise meets the definition of housing infrastructure under sub. (1) (e).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1428 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2417
SECTION  2417 .  234.66 (5) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
234.66 (5) (c)  No loan awarded under this subsection may exceed 10 25 
percent of the amount of the total cost of development of the residential housing 
supported by the eligible project.
SECTION  2418 .  234.661 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
234.661 (1) (b)  XEligible political subdivision Y governmental unit Y means the 
city, village, town, or county governmental unit having jurisdiction over an eligible 
project, as determined by the authority.
SECTION  2419 .  234.661 (1) (c) 5. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2420 .  234.661 (1) (c) 6. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2421 .  234.661 (1) (e) of the statutes is renumbered 234.661 (1) (e) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
234.661 (1) (e) (intro.)  XRental housing Y means single-family or multifamily 
housing offered or intended to be offered for rent that to which any of the following 
applies:
1.  The housing is subject to taxation under ch. 70.
SECTION  2422 .  234.661 (3) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
234.661 (3) (b) (intro.)  From the main street housing rehabilitation revolving 
loan fund, the authority may award loans to owners of rental housing to cover 
housing rehabilitation costs for an eligible project.  Any owner of rental housing, 
other than a city, village, town, or county governmental unit, may apply to the 
authority for a loan in accordance with the application process established by the 
authority under par. (c), but the authority may not award the loan unless the owner 
of the rental housing and eligible political subdivision governmental unit 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1429 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2422
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the authority in one or more forms prescribed by 
the authority that all of the following apply:
SECTION  2423 .  234.661 (3) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
234.661 (3) (b) 3.  The eligible political subdivision governmental unit has 
reduced the cost of rental housing in connection with the eligible project by 
voluntarily revising zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, or other land 
development regulations to increase development density, expedite approvals, 
reduce impact fees, or reduce parking, building, or other development costs with 
respect to the eligible project.  For purposes of this subdivision, the political 
subdivision governmental unit in cooperation with the owner shall submit to the 
authority a cost reduction analysis in a form prescribed by the authority and signed 
by the owner and the head of the political subdivision [s governmental unit [s 
governing body that shows the cost reduction measures, including time saving 
measures, undertaken by the political subdivision governmental unit on or after 
January 1, 2023 2015, that have reduced the cost of rental housing in connection 
with the eligible project.  The signed analysis shall clearly show for each time saving 
or cost reduction measure the estimated time or dollar amount saved by the owner 
and the estimated percentage reduction in rental housing costs.
SECTION  2424 .  234.661 (3) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
234.661 (3) (b) 4.  The eligible political subdivision governmental unit is in 
compliance with the requirements under ss. 66.1001, 66.10013, and 66.10014, to 
the extent those requirements apply to the political subdivision governmental unit.
SECTION  2425 .  234.661 (3) (b) 5. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2426 .  234.661 (3) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1430 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2426
234.661 (3) (c)  The authority shall establish a semiannual application process 
for the award of loans under this subsection.  If in any application cycle there are 
insufficient moneys available in the main street housing rehabilitation revolving 
loan fund to fund all applications that meet the requirements under par. (b) and are 
otherwise acceptable to the authority, the authority shall prioritize funding loans 
for eligible projects in eligible political subdivisions governmental unit that have 
reduced the cost of rental housing as described in par. (b) 3. but with respect to the 
political subdivision governmental unit as a whole.
SECTION  2427 .  234.661 (3) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
234.661 (3) (d)  No loan awarded under this subsection may exceed $20,000 
$50,000 per dwelling unit or 25 33 percent of the total housing rehabilitation project 
costs, whichever is less, and the authority may establish an interest rate for any 
loan awarded under this subsection at or below the market interest rate or may 
charge no interest.
SECTION  2428 .  234.661 (5) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
234.661 (5) (b) 4.  An identification of the eligible political subdivision 
governmental unit with respect to which the loan was awarded.
SECTION  2429 .  234.662 (1) (c) of the statutes is renumbered 234.662 (1) (c) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
234.662 (1) (c) (intro.)  XDeveloper Y means a person other than a city, village, 
town, or county, that converts a vacant commercial building to residential use. and 
that is any of the following:
SECTION  2430 .  234.662 (1) (c) 1. of the statutes is created to read:
234.662 (1) (c) 1.  A person other than a city, village, town, or county.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1431 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2431
SECTION  2431 .  234.662 (1) (c) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
234.662 (1) (c) 2.  A tribal housing authority created by a tribal council.
SECTION  2432 .  234.662 (1) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
234.662 (1) (d)  XEligible political subdivision Y governmental unit Y means the 
city, village, town, or county governmental unit having jurisdiction over an eligible 
project, as determined by the authority.
SECTION  2433 .  234.662 (1) (e) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2434 .  234.662 (1) (e) 4. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2435 .  234.662 (1) (em) of the statutes is created to read:
234.662 (1) (em)  XGovernmental unit Y means a city, village, town, county, or 
federally recognized American Indian tribe or band in this state.
SECTION  2436 .  234.662 (1) (f) of the statutes is renumbered 234.662 (1) (f) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
234.662 (1) (f) (intro.)  XResidential housing Y means single-family or 
multifamily housing for rent or sale that to which any of the following applies:
1.  The housing is subject to taxation under ch. 70.
SECTION  2437 .  234.662 (1) (f) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
234.662 (1) (f) 2.  The housing is not subject to taxation under ch. 70 because 
it is designated as reservation lands, as defined in s. 165.92 (1) (a), or trust lands, as 
defined in s. 165.92 (1) (d).
SECTION  2438 .  234.662 (1) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
234.662 (1) (g)  XResidential housing development Y means residential housing 
that consists of 16 6 or more dwelling units.
SECTION  2439 .  234.662 (3) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1432 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2439
234.662 (3) (b) (intro.)  From the commercial-to-housing conversion revolving 
loan fund, the authority may award loans to developers to cover construction costs 
for an eligible project, including demolition.  Any developer may apply to the 
authority for a loan in accordance with the application process established by the 
authority under par. (c), but the authority may not award the loan unless the 
developer and the eligible political subdivision governmental unit demonstrate to 
the satisfaction of the authority in one or more forms prescribed by the authority 
that all of the following apply:
SECTION  2440 .  234.662 (3) (b) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
234.662 (3) (b) 3.  The eligible political subdivision governmental unit has 
reduced the cost of residential housing in connection with the eligible project by 
voluntarily revising zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, or other land 
development regulations to increase development density, expedite approvals, 
reduce impact, water connection, and inspection fees, or reduce parking, building, 
or other development costs with respect to the development of residential housing 
supported by the project.  For purposes of this subdivision, the political subdivision 
governmental unit in cooperation with the developer shall submit to the authority a 
cost reduction analysis in a form prescribed by the authority and signed by the 
developer and the head of the political subdivision [s governmental unit [s governing 
body that shows the cost reduction measures, including time saving measures, 
undertaken by the political subdivision governmental unit on or after January 1, 
2023 2015, that have reduced the cost of residential housing in connection with the 
eligible project.  The signed analysis shall clearly show for each time saving or cost 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1433 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2440
reduction measure the estimated time or dollar amount saved by the developer and 
the estimated percentage reduction in housing costs.
SECTION  2441 .  234.662 (3) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
234.662 (3) (b) 4.  The eligible political subdivision governmental unit is in 
compliance with the requirements under ss. 66.1001, 66.10013, and 66.10014, to 
the extent those requirements apply to the political subdivision governmental unit.
SECTION  2442 .  234.662 (3) (b) 5. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2443 .  234.662 (3) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
234.662 (3) (c)  The authority shall establish a semiannual application process 
for the award of loans under this subsection.  If in any application cycle there are 
insufficient moneys available in the commercial-to-housing conversion revolving 
loan fund to fund all applications that meet the requirements under par. (b) and are 
otherwise acceptable to the authority, the authority shall prioritize funding loans 
for eligible projects in eligible political subdivisions governmental units that have 
reduced the cost of residential housing as described in par. (b) 3. but with respect to 
the political subdivision governmental unit as a whole.
SECTION  2444 .  234.662 (3) (d) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
234.662 (3) (d) 2.  No loan awarded under this subsection may exceed 
$1,000,000 per eligible project or 20 33 percent of the total project costs, including 
any land purchase, whichever is less.
SECTION  2445 .  234.662 (5) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
234.662 (5) (b) 4.  An identification of the eligible political subdivision 
governmental unit with respect to which the loan was awarded.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1434 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2446
SECTION  2446 .  238.03 (4) (b) (intro.) and 1. of the statutes are consolidated, 
renumbered 238.03 (4) (b) and amended to read:
238.03 (4) (b)  The board shall establish policies and procedures for 
maintaining and expending any unassigned balance that satisfy all of the following 
requirements:  1.  The policies and procedures shall be consistent with best 
practices recommended by the Government Finance Officers Association.
SECTION  2447 .  238.03 (4) (b) 2. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2448 .  238.127 (1) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 238.127 (1) (bm) 
and amended to read:
238.127 (1) (bm)  XBusiness area Y means a commercial area existing at the 
time services under the state main street program are requested and having 
historic significance downtown area or historic commercial district.
SECTION  2449 .  238.127 (1) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 238.127 (1) (am) 
and amended to read:
238.127 (1) (am)  XMunicipality Applicant Y means a city, village or, town, 
tribal government, chamber of commerce, or nonprofit organization.
SECTION  2450 .  238.127 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
238.127 (2) (intro.)  The corporation shall establish and administer a state 
main street program to coordinate state and local participation in programs offered 
by the national main street center, created by the national trust for historic 
preservation, to assist municipalities applicants in planning, managing and 
implementing programs for the revitalization of business areas.  The corporation 
shall do all of the following:
SECTION  2451 .  238.127 (2) (a) of the statutes is repealed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1435 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2452
SECTION  2452 .  238.127 (2) (c) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2453 .  238.127 (2) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
238.127 (2) (d)  Coordinate with other state and local public and private 
entities which provide services to municipalities applicants undertaking projects 
for the revitalization of business areas.
SECTION  2454 .  238.127 (2) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
238.127 (2) (e)  Annually select, upon application, up to 5 municipalities 
applicants to participate in the state main street program.  The program for each 
municipality applicant shall conclude after 3 years, except that the program for 
each municipality applicant selected after July 29, 1995, shall conclude after 5 
years.  The corporation shall select program participants representing various 
geographical regions and populations.  A municipality An applicant may apply to 
participate, and the corporation may select a municipality an applicant for 
participation, more than one time.  In selecting a municipality an applicant, 
however, the corporation may give priority to those municipalities applicants that 
have not previously participated.
SECTION  2455 .  238.127 (2) (f) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
238.127 (2) (f) (intro.)  For use in selecting the participants in the state main 
street program under par. (e), develop objective criteria relating to evaluate and 
consider at least the following issues:
SECTION  2456 .  238.127 (2) (f) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
238.127 (2) (f) 1.  Private and public sector interest in and commitment to 
revitalization of a business area selected by the municipality applicant.
SECTION  2457 .  238.127 (2) (f) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1436 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2457
238.127 (2) (f) 2.  Potential private sector investment in a business area 
selected by the municipality applicant.
SECTION  2458 .  238.127 (2) (f) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2459 .  238.127 (2) (f) 3m. of the statutes is created to read:
238.127 (2) (f) 3m.  Potential to retain small businesses in the business area 
selected by the applicant.
SECTION  2460 .  238.127 (2) (f) 4. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2461 .  238.127 (2) (f) 4m. of the statutes is created to read:
238.127 (2) (f) 4m.  Potential to attract new businesses to the business area 
selected by the applicant.
SECTION  2462 .  238.127 (2) (f) 5. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2463 .  238.127 (2) (f) 5m. of the statutes is created to read:
238.127 (2) (f) 5m.  Potential to generate new economic activity and grow the 
tax base in the business area selected by the applicant.  
SECTION  2464 .  238.127 (2) (f) 6. of the statutes is created to read:
238.127 (2) (f) 6.  Potential to create employment opportunities in the business 
area selected by the applicant.
SECTION  2465 .  238.127 (2) (h) of the statutes is amended to read:
238.127 (2) (h)  Provide training, technical assistance and information on the 
revitalization of business areas to municipalities applicants which do not 
participate in the state main street program.  The corporation may charge 
reasonable fees for the services and information provided under this paragraph.
SECTION  2466 .  238.308 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
238.308 (1) (b)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, Xfull-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1437 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2466
time job Y means a nonseasonal job for which the annual pay is more than the 
amount determined by multiplying 2,080 by 150 percent of the federal minimum 
wage and for which the person is offered retirement, health, and other benefits 
$34,220 and benefits that are not required by federal or state law.  XFull-time job Y 
does not include initial training before an employment position begins.
SECTION  2467 .  238.308 (4) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
238.308 (4) (a) 1.  An amount equal to up to 10 percent of the amount of wages 
that the person paid to an eligible employee in the taxable year.  For contracts 
executed by the corporation after December 31, 2025, the amount of wages taken 
into account under this subdivision may not exceed $151,300 per eligible employee 
per year.  Beginning on January 1, 2027, the dollar amount under this subdivision 
shall be increased each year by a percentage equal to the percentage change 
between the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, 
for the month of August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price index for 
all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August of the year before 
the previous year, as determined by the federal department of labor.  Each amount 
that is revised under this subdivision shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of 
$10 if the revised amount is not a multiple of $10 or, if the revised amount is a 
multiple of $5, such an amount shall be increased to the next higher multiple of 
$10.
SECTION  2468 .  238.308 (4) (a) 6. of the statutes is amended to read:
238.308 (4) (a) 6.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, and 
before January 1, 2025, an amount equal to up to 15 percent of the person [s 
investment in workforce housing, as defined in s. 234.66 (1) (i), for employees and, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1438 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2468
for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, up to 15 percent of the 
person[s investment in establishing an employee child care program for employees.  
Such investments may include only capital expenditures made by the person.
SECTION  2469 .  238.308 (4) (a) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
238.308 (4) (a) 7.  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, an 
amount equal to up to 15 percent of the person [s investment in workforce housing, 
as defined in s. 234.66 (1) (i).  Such investments may include contributions made by 
the person to a 3rd party responsible for building or rehabilitating workforce 
housing, including contributions made to a local revolving loan fund program.
SECTION  2470 .  238.399 (1) (as) of the statutes is amended to read:
238.399 (1) (as)  For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2023, Xfull-
time job Y means a nonseasonal job for which the annual pay is more than the 
amount determined by multiplying 2,080 by 150 percent of the federal minimum 
wage and for which the person is offered retirement, health, and other benefits 
$34,220 in a tier I county or municipality or more than $45,390 in a tier II county or 
municipality and benefits that are not required by federal or state law.
SECTION  2471 .  238.399 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
238.399 (3) (a)  The corporation may designate any number of not more than 
30 enterprise zones in this state.
SECTION  2472 .  238.399 (3) (am) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2473 .  238.399 (3) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
238.399 (3) (e)  If the corporation revokes all certifications for tax benefits 
within a designated enterprise zone or all certifications for tax benefits within a 
designated enterprise zone expire, the corporation may cancel the designation of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1439 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2473
that enterprise zone.  After canceling the designation of an enterprise zone, the 
corporation may designate a new enterprise zone subject to the limits under this 
subsection.
SECTION  2474 .  238.399 (6) (h) of the statutes is created to read:
238.399 (6) (h)  Beginning on January 1, 2027, the dollar amount in sub. (1) 
(as) shall be increased each year by a percentage equal to the percentage change 
between the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, 
for the month of August of the previous year and the U.S. consumer price index for 
all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the month of August of the year before 
the previous year, as determined by the federal department of labor.  Each amount 
that is revised under this paragraph shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $10 
if the revised amount is not a multiple of $10 or, if the revised amount is a multiple 
of $5, such an amount shall be increased to the next higher multiple of $10.
SECTION  2475 .  250.04 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
250.04 (3) (a)  The department shall establish and maintain surveillance 
activities sufficient to detect any occurrence of acute, communicable, or chronic 
diseases and threat of occupational or environmental hazards, injuries, or changes 
in the health of mothers parents and children.
SECTION  2476 .  250.15 (1) (b) 7. of the statutes is created to read:
250.15 (1) (b) 7.  The organizations are not health center look-alikes.
SECTION  2477 .  250.15 (1) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
250.15 (1) (c)  XHealth center look-alike Y means a health care entity that is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1440 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2477
designated by the federal health resources and services administration as a 
federally qualified health center look-alike.
SECTION  2478 .  250.15 (2) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
250.15 (2) (d)  Two million two hundred fifty thousand dollars to To free and 
charitable clinics, $2,500,000.
SECTION  2479 .  250.15 (2) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
250.15 (2) (e)  To health center look-alikes, $200,000.  A grant awarded to a 
health center look-alike under this paragraph may not exceed $100,000.
SECTION  2480 .  251.01 (1c) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
251.01 (1c)  XAdvanced practice registered nurse Y means an individual 
licensed under s. 441.09.
SECTION  2481 .  252.01 (1c) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2482 .  252.07 (8) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
252.07 (8) (a) 2.  The department or local health officer provides to the court a 
written statement from a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber that the individual has infectious tuberculosis or 
suspect tuberculosis.
SECTION  2483 .  252.07 (9) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.07 (9) (c)  If the court orders confinement of an individual under this 
subsection, the individual shall remain confined until the department or local 
health officer, with the concurrence of a treating physician, physician assistant, or 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, determines that treatment is 
complete or that the individual is no longer a substantial threat to himself or herself 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1441 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2483
or to the public health.  If the individual is to be confined for more than 6 months, 
the court shall review the confinement every 6 months.
SECTION  2484 .  252.10 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.10 (7)  Drugs necessary for the treatment of mycobacterium tuberculosis 
shall be purchased by the department from the appropriation account under s. 
20.435 (1) (e) and dispensed to patients through the public health dispensaries, 
local health departments, physicians, or advanced practice nurse prescribers 
registered nurses who may issue prescription orders under s. 441.09 (2).
SECTION  2485 .  252.11 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.11 (2)  An officer of the department or a local health officer having 
knowledge of any reported or reasonably suspected case or contact of a sexually 
transmitted disease for which no appropriate treatment is being administered, or of 
an actual contact of a reported case or potential contact of a reasonably suspected 
case, shall investigate or cause the case or contact to be investigated as necessary.  
If, following a request of an officer of the department or a local health officer, a 
person reasonably suspected of being infected with a sexually transmitted disease 
refuses or neglects examination by a physician, physician assistant, or advanced 
practice registered nurse prescriber or treatment, an officer of the department or a 
local health officer may proceed to have the person committed under sub. (5) to an 
institution or system of care for examination, treatment, or observation.
SECTION  2486 .  252.11 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.11 (4)  If a person infected with a sexually transmitted disease ceases or 
refuses treatment before reaching what in a physician [s, physician assistant [s, or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1442 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2486
advanced practice nurse prescriber [s registered nurse [s opinion is the 
noncommunicable stage, the physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber shall notify the department.  The department shall 
without delay take the necessary steps to have the person committed for treatment 
or observation under sub. (5), or shall notify the local health officer to take these 
steps.
SECTION  2487 .  252.11 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.11 (5)  Any court of record may commit a person infected with a sexually 
transmitted disease to any institution or may require the person to undergo a 
system of care for examination, treatment, or observation if the person ceases or 
refuses examination, treatment, or observation under the supervision of a 
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber.  
The court shall summon the person to appear on a date at least 48 hours, but not 
more than 96 hours, after service if an officer of the department or a local health 
officer petitions the court and states the facts authorizing commitment.  If the 
person fails to appear or fails to accept commitment without reasonable cause, the 
court may cite the person for contempt.  The court may issue a warrant and may 
direct the sheriff, any constable, or any police officer of the county immediately to 
arrest the person and bring the person to court if the court finds that a summons 
will be ineffectual.  The court shall hear the matter of commitment summarily.  
Commitment under this subsection continues until the disease is no longer 
communicable or until other provisions are made for treatment that satisfy the 
department.  The certificate of the petitioning officer is prima facie evidence that 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1443 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2487
the disease is no longer communicable or that satisfactory provisions for treatment 
have been made.
SECTION  2488 .  252.11 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.11 (7)  Reports, examinations and inspections, and all records concerning 
sexually transmitted diseases are confidential and not open to public inspection, 
and may not be divulged except as may be necessary for the preservation of the 
public health, in the course of commitment proceedings under sub. (5), or as 
provided under s. 938.296 (4) or 968.38 (4).  If a physician, physician assistant, or 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber has reported a case of sexually 
transmitted disease to the department under sub. (4), information regarding the 
presence of the disease and treatment is not privileged when the patient, physician, 
physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber is called upon 
to testify to the facts before any court of record.
SECTION  2489 .  252.11 (10) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.11 (10)  The state laboratory of hygiene shall examine specimens for the 
diagnosis of sexually transmitted diseases for any physician, naturopathic doctor, 
physician assistant, advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, or local health 
officer in the state, and shall report the positive results of the examinations to the 
local health officer and to the department.  All laboratories performing tests for 
sexually transmitted diseases shall report all positive results to the local health 
officer and to the department, with the name of the physician, naturopathic doctor, 
physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber to whom 
reported.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1444 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2490
SECTION  2490 .  252.12 (2) (a) 8. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.12 (2) (a) 8.  ZMike Johnson life care and early intervention services 
grants.[  (intro.)  The department shall award not more than $4,000,000 $4,500,000 
in each fiscal year in grants to applying AIDS service organizations for the 
provision of needs assessments; assistance in procuring financial, medical, legal, 
social and pastoral services; counseling and therapy; homecare services and 
supplies; advocacy; and case management services.  These services shall include 
early intervention services.  The department shall also award not more than 
$74,000 in each year from the appropriation account under s. 20.435 (5) (md) for the 
services under this subdivision.  The state share of payment for case management 
services that are provided under s. 49.45 (25) (be) to recipients of medical 
assistance shall be paid from the appropriation account under s. 20.435 (1) (am).  
All of the following apply to grants awarded under this subdivision:
SECTION  2491 .  252.15 (3m) (d) 11. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
252.15 (3m)  (d) 11. b.  The coroner, medical examiner, or appointed assistant 
is investigating the cause of death of the subject of the HIV test and has contact 
with the body fluid of the subject of the HIV test that constitutes a significant 
exposure, if a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber, based on information provided to the physician, physician assistant, or 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, determines and certifies in writing 
that the coroner, medical examiner, or appointed assistant has had a contact that 
constitutes a significant exposure and if the certification accompanies the request 
for disclosure.
SECTION  2492 .  252.15 (3m) (d) 13. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1445 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2492
252.15 (3m)  (d) 13.  If the subject of the HIV test has a positive HIV test result 
and is deceased, by the subject [s attending physician, physician assistant, or 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, to persons, if known to the physician, 
physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, with whom 
the subject had sexual contact or shared intravenous drug use paraphernalia.
SECTION  2493 .  252.15 (5g) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.15 (5g) (c)  A physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber, based on information provided to the physician, 
physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, determines 
and certifies in writing that the person has had contact that constitutes a 
significant exposure.  The certification shall accompany the request for HIV testing 
and disclosure.  If the person is a physician, physician assistant, or advanced 
practice registered nurse prescriber, he or she may not make this determination or 
certification.  The information that is provided to a physician, physician assistant, 
or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber to document the occurrence of the 
contact that constitutes a significant exposure and the physician [s, physician 
assistant [s, or advanced practice nurse prescriber [s registered nurse [s certification 
that the person has had contact that constitutes a significant exposure, shall be 
provided on a report form that is developed by the department of safety and 
professional services under s. 101.02 (19) (a) or on a report form that the 
department of safety and professional services determines, under s. 101.02 (19) (b), 
is substantially equivalent to the report form that is developed under s. 101.02 (19) 
(a).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1446 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2494
SECTION  2494 .  252.15 (5m) (d) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
252.15 (5m)  (d) 2.  A physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber, based on information provided to the physician, 
physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, determines 
and certifies in writing that the contact under subd. 1. constitutes a significant 
exposure.  A health care provider who has a contact under subd. 1. c. may not make 
the certification under this subdivision for himself or herself.
SECTION  2495 .  252.15 (5m) (e) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
252.15 (5m)  (e) 2.  If the contact occurs as provided under par. (d) 1. b., the 
attending physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber of the funeral director, coroner, medical examiner, or appointed 
assistant.
SECTION  2496 .  252.15 (5m) (e) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
252.15 (5m)  (e) 3.  If the contact occurs as provided under par. (d) 1. c., the 
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber 
who makes the certification under par. (d) 2.
SECTION  2497 .  252.15 (7m) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.15 (7m)   REPORTING  OF PERSONS  SIGNIFICANTLY  EXPOSED .  (intro.)  If a 
positive, validated HIV test result is obtained from a test subject, the test subject [s 
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber 
who maintains a record of the HIV test result under sub. (4) (c) may report to the 
state epidemiologist the name of any person known to the physician, physician 
assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber to have had contact with 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1447 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2497
body fluid of the test subject that constitutes a significant exposure, only after the 
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber has 
done all of the following:
SECTION  2498 .  252.15 (7m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.15 (7m)  (b)  Notified the HIV test subject that the name of any person 
known to the physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber to have had contact with body fluid of the test subject that constitutes a 
significant exposure will be reported to the state epidemiologist.
SECTION  2499 .  252.16 (3) (c) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.16 (3) (c) (intro.)  Has submitted to the department a certification from a 
physician, as defined in s. 448.01 (5), physician assistant, or advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber of all of the following:
SECTION  2500 .  252.17 (3) (c) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
252.17 (3) (c) (intro.)  Has submitted to the department a certification from a 
physician, as defined in s. 448.01 (5), physician assistant, or advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber of all of the following:
SECTION  2501 .  253.07 (1) (a) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
253.07 (1) (a) 3.  Pregnancy termination.
SECTION  2502 .  253.07 (1) (b) 3. of the statutes is created to read:
253.07 (1) (b) 3.  Pregnancy termination.
SECTION  2503 .  253.07 (4) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
253.07 (4) (d)  In each fiscal year, $31,500 as grants for employment in 
communities of licensed registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, certified 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1448 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2503
nurse-midwives licensed advanced practice registered nurses, or licensed physician 
assistants who are members of a racial minority.
SECTION  2504 .  253.07 (5) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is renumbered 253.07 (5) 
(b) and amended to read:
253.07 (5) (b)  Subject to par. (c), a  A public entity that receives women [s 
health funds under this section may provide some or all of the funds to other public 
or private entities provided that the recipient of the funds does not do any of the 
following:.
SECTION  2505 .  253.07 (5) (b) 1. to 3. of the statutes are repealed.
SECTION  2506 .  253.07 (5) (c) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2507 .  253.115 (1) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
253.115 (1) (f)  XNurse-midwife Y means an individual who is licensed as an 
advanced practice registered nurse and possesses a certified nurse-midwife 
specialty designation under s. 441.09.
SECTION  2508 .  253.115 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
253.115 (4)  S CREENING  REQUIRED .  Except as provided in sub. (6), the 
physician, nurse-midwife licensed under s. 441.15, or certified professional midwife 
licensed under s. 440.982 who attended the birth shall ensure that the infant is 
screened for hearing loss before being discharged from a hospital, or within 30 days 
of birth if the infant was not born in a hospital.
SECTION  2509 .  253.115 (7) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
253.115 (7) (a) (intro.)  The physician, nurse-midwife licensed under s. 441.15, 
or certified professional midwife licensed under s. 440.982 who is required to ensure 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1449 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2509
that the infant is screened for hearing loss under sub. (4) shall do all of the 
following:
SECTION  2510 .  253.13 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 253.13 (1) (b) and 
amended to read:
253.13 (1) (b)  The attending physician or nurse licensed under s. 441.15 
nurse-midwife shall cause every infant born in each hospital or maternity home, 
prior to its discharge therefrom, to be subjected to tests for congenital and metabolic 
disorders, as specified in rules promulgated by the department.  If the infant is born 
elsewhere than in a hospital or maternity home, the attending physician, nurse 
licensed under s. 441.15 nurse-midwife, or birth attendant who attended the birth 
shall cause the infant, within one week of birth, to be subjected to these tests.
SECTION  2511 .  253.13 (1) (a) of the statutes is created to read:
253.13 (1) (a)  In this subsection, Xnurse-midwife Y means an individual who is 
licensed as an advanced practice registered nurse and possesses a certified nurse-
midwife specialty designation under s. 441.09.
SECTION  2512 .  253.13 (6) of the statutes is created to read:
253.13 (6)  FEDERAL  RECOMMENDATIONS ; EVALUATION  PROCEDURE .  (a)  Initial 
evaluation.  1.  Subject to subd. 2., for any disorder that is added to the federal 
recommended uniform screening panel approved by the federal department of 
health and human services after January 1, 2025, and that is not included in the 
list of disorders under s. DHS 115.04, Wis. Adm. Code, the department shall do all 
of the following within 18 months after the addition of the disorder:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1450 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2512
a.  Conduct an initial evaluation to determine whether the disorder should be 
included in the testing required under this section.
b.  If the department determines that the disorder should be included in the 
testing required under this section, commence rule making to add the disorder to 
the list under s. DHS 115.04, Wis. Adm. Code.
2.  This paragraph does not apply to any disorder included in the federal 
recommended uniform screening panel that will be added to the list of disorders 
under s. DHS 115.04, Wis. Adm. Code, pending promulgation of a rule for which the 
department has commenced rule-making procedures as of the effective date of this 
subdivision .... [LRB inserts date].
(b)  Annual review .  1.  Subject to subd. 2., the department shall do all of the 
following on an annual basis for any disorder the department determines in an 
initial evaluation under par. (a) or a reevaluation under par. (c) should not be 
included in the testing required under this section and for any disorder that was the 
subject of rule making under par. (a) 2. or 2025 Wisconsin Act .... (this act), section 
9119 (5), that did not result in the promulgation of a rule:
a.  Review the medical literature published on the disorder since the initial 
evaluation or the commencement of rule making under par. (a) 2. or 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), section 9119 (5), to determine whether new information has been 
identified that would merit a reevaluation of whether testing for the disorder 
should be included in the testing required under this section.
b.  Determine whether the department has the capacity and resources needed 
to include testing for the disorder in the testing required under this section.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1451 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2512
2.  This paragraph does not apply to any disorder that is removed from the 
federal recommended uniform screening panel.
(c)  Reevaluation.  If the department finds in an annual review under par. (b) 
that new information has been identified that would merit a reevaluation of 
whether testing for a disorder should be included in the testing required under this 
section or that the department has the capacity and resources needed to include 
testing for the disorder in the testing required under this section, the department 
shall do all of the following within 18 months of completing the annual review:
1.  Conduct a reevaluation to determine whether testing for the disorder 
should be included in the testing required under this section.
2.  If the department determines in the reevaluation that testing for a disorder 
should be included in the testing required under this section, commence rule 
making to add the disorder to the list under s. DHS 115.04, Wis. Adm. Code.
(d)  Emergency rule making.   The department may use the procedure under s. 
227.24 to promulgate a rule under this subsection or 2025 Wisconsin Act .... (this 
act), section 9119 (4) (b).  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the department 
is not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this paragraph 
as an emergency rule is necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, 
safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of emergency for a rule 
promulgated under this paragraph.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), if the 
department submits in proposed form a permanent rule to the legislative council 
staff under s. 227.15 (1) within 15 months of the date the statement of scope of the 
emergency rule promulgated under this paragraph is published in the register 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1452 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2512
under s. 227.135 (3), the emergency rule remains in effect until the date on which 
the permanent rule takes effect or the date on which the statement of scope expires 
under s. 227.135 (5), whichever occurs first.
(e)  Implementation.   The department shall ensure that testing for any 
disorder added by rule to the list under s. DHS 115.04, Wis. Adm. Code, in 
accordance with this subsection begins within 6 months after the date of 
publication, as defined in s. 227.22 (1), of the rule.
SECTION  2513 .  253.15 (1) (em) of the statutes is created to read:
253.15 (1) (em)  XNurse-midwife Y means an individual who is licensed as an 
advanced practice registered nurse and possesses a certified nurse-midwife 
specialty designation under s. 441.09.
SECTION  2514 .  253.15 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
253.15 (2)  INFORMATIONAL  MATERIALS .  The board shall purchase or prepare 
or arrange with a nonprofit organization to prepare printed and audiovisual 
materials relating to shaken baby syndrome and impacted babies.  The materials 
shall include information regarding the identification and prevention of shaken 
baby syndrome and impacted babies, the grave effects of shaking or throwing on an 
infant or young child, appropriate ways to manage crying, fussing, or other causes 
that can lead a person to shake or throw an infant or young child, and a discussion 
of ways to reduce the risks that can lead a person to shake or throw an infant or 
young child.  The materials shall be prepared in English, Spanish, and other 
languages spoken by a significant number of state residents, as determined by the 
board.  The board shall make those written and audiovisual materials available to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1453 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2514
all hospitals, maternity homes, and nurse-midwives licensed under s. 441.15 that 
are required to provide or make available materials to parents under sub. (3) (a) 1., 
to the department and to all county departments and nonprofit organizations that 
are required to provide the materials to child care providers under sub. (4) (d), and 
to all school boards and nonprofit organizations that are permitted to provide the 
materials to pupils in one of grades 5 to 8 and in one of grades 10 to 12 under sub. 
(5).  The board shall also make those written materials available to all county 
departments and Indian tribes that are providing home visitation services under s. 
48.983 (4) (b) 1. and to all providers of prenatal, postpartum, and young child care 
coordination services under s. 49.45 (44).  The board may make available the 
materials required under this subsection to be made available by making those 
materials available at no charge on the board [s Internet site.
SECTION  2515 .  255.06 (1) (d) of the statutes is renumbered 255.06 (1) (f) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
255.06 (1) (f) (intro.)  XNurse practitioner Y XWomen[s health nurse clinician Y 
means  a  any of the following:
1.  A registered nurse who is licensed under ch. 441 or who holds a multistate 
license, as defined in s. 441.51 (2) (h), issued in a party state, as defined in s. 441.51 
(2) (k), and whose practice of professional nursing under s. 441.001 (4) includes 
performance of delegated medical services under the supervision of a physician, 
naturopathic doctor, dentist, or podiatrist, or advanced practice registered nurse.
SECTION  2516 .  255.06 (1) (f) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
255.06 (1) (f) 2.  An advanced practice registered nurse.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1454 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2517
SECTION  2517 .  255.06 (2) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
255.06 (2) (d)  Specialized training for rural colposcopic examinations and 
activities.   Provide not more than $25,000 in each fiscal year as reimbursement for 
the provision of specialized training of nurse practitioners women [s health nurse 
clinicians to perform, in rural areas, colposcopic examinations and follow-up 
activities for the treatment of cervical cancer.
SECTION  2518 .  255.07 (1) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
255.07 (1) (d)  XHealth care practitioner Y means a physician, a physician 
assistant, or an advanced practice registered nurse who is certified to may issue 
prescription orders under s. 441.16 441.09 (2).
SECTION  2519 .  255.18 of the statutes is created to read:
255.18   Parkinson [s disease registry reporting.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this 
section:  
(a)  XHealth care facility Y has the meaning given in s. 155.01 (6).
(b)  XHealth care provider Y means a physician, surgeon, physician assistant, or 
nurse practitioner.
(c)  XParkinsonism Y has the meaning given in s. 36.47 (1) (c)
(d)  XParkinson [s disease Y has the meaning given in s. 36.47 (1) (d).
(e)  XParkinson [s disease registry Y means the Parkinson [s disease registry 
established and maintained by the Population Health Institute under s. 36.47 (3).
(f)  XPopulation Health Institute Y means the Population Health Institute, or 
its successor, at the University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine and Public 
Health.
(2)  REPORTING  REQUIRED .  Beginning on the first day of the 25th month 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1455 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2519
beginning after the effective date of this subsection .... [LRB inserts date], if a 
health care provider diagnoses a patient with Parkinson [s disease or a 
parkinsonism in this state or, for a health care provider who has primary 
responsibility for treating a patient [s Parkinson [s disease or parkinsonism, treats a 
patient[s Parkinson [s disease or parkinsonism in this state, that health care 
provider or the health care facility that employs or contracts with the health care 
provider shall do all of the following:
(a)  Offer the patient the opportunity to do all of the following:
1.  Review any informational materials developed by the Population Health 
Institute about the Parkinson [s disease registry.
2.  Speak with and ask questions of their health care provider about the 
Parkinson [s disease registry.
3.  Affirmatively decline, in writing, to participate in the collection of data for 
purposes of the Parkinson [s disease registry.
(b)  Except as provided in par. (d), report the information specified in the list 
under s. 36.47 (3) (d) about the patient [s case to the Population Health Institute in 
the format prescribed by the Population Health Institute under s. 36.47 (3) (c).
(c)  Notify the patient orally and in writing about the reporting requirement 
under par. (b).
(d)  If the patient affirmatively declines in writing to participate in the 
collection of data for purposes of the Parkinson [s disease registry, report only the 
incident of the patient [s Parkinson [s disease or parkinsonism to the Population 
Health Institute in the format prescribed by the Population Health Institute under 
s. 36.47 (3) (c).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1456 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2519
(3)  CONFIDENTIALITY .  Any information reported to the Population Health 
Institute under sub. (2) that could identify an individual who is the subject of the 
report or a health care provider submitting the report is confidential.  Confidential 
information obtained or reported in compliance with sub. (2) is not available for 
subpoena and may not be disclosed, discoverable, or compelled to be produced in any 
civil, criminal, administrative, or other proceeding.  Confidential information 
obtained or reported in compliance with sub. (2) is not admissible as evidence in any 
civil, criminal, administrative, or other tribunal or court for any reason.
(4)  RESPONSIBILITY .  A health care facility that employs or contracts with a 
health care provider diagnosing a patient with, or treating a patient with, 
Parkinson [s disease or a parkinsonism is ultimately responsible for meeting the 
requirements under sub. (2).
SECTION  2520 .  255.35 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
255.35 (3) (a)  The department shall implement a statewide poison control 
system, which shall provide poison control services that are available statewide, on 
a 24-hour per day and 365-day per year basis and shall provide poison information 
and education to health care professionals and the public.  From the appropriation 
account under s. 20.435 (1) (ds), the department shall, if the requirement under par. 
(b) is met, distribute total funding of not more than $425,000 $482,500 in each 
fiscal year to supplement the operation of the system and to provide for the 
statewide collection and reporting of poison control data.  The department may, but 
need not, distribute all of the funds in each fiscal year to a single poison control 
center.
SECTION  2521 .  256.12 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1457 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2521
256.12 (4) (a)  From the appropriation account under s. 20.435 (1) (r), the 
department shall annually distribute funds for ambulance service vehicles or 
vehicle equipment, emergency medical services supplies or equipment, nondurable 
or disposable medical supplies or equipment, medications, or emergency medical 
training for personnel to an emergency medical responder department or 
ambulance service provider that is a public agency, a volunteer fire department or 
a nonprofit corporation, under a funding formula consisting of an identical a base 
amount for each emergency medical responder department or ambulance service 
provider based on provider type, plus a supplemental amount based on the 
population or other relevant factors of the emergency medical responder 
department [s primary service area or the population or other relevant factors of the 
ambulance service provider [s primary service or contract area, as established 
under s. 256.15 (5), as applicable.
SECTION  2522 .  256.12 (4) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
256.12 (4) (c)  Funds distributed under par. (a) or (b) shall supplement 
existing, budgeted moneys of or provided to an ambulance service provider and may 
not be used to replace, decrease or release for alternative purposes the existing, 
budgeted moneys of or provided to the ambulance service provider.  A grant 
recipient under this subsection cannot expend more than 15 percent of a grant 
awarded during an annual grant cycle on nondurable or disposable medical 
supplies or equipment and medications.  In order to ensure compliance with this 
paragraph, the department shall require, as a condition of relicensure, a financial 
report of expenditures under this subsection from an ambulance service provider 
and may require a financial report of expenditures under this subsection from an 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1458 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2522
emergency medical responder department or an owner or operator of an ambulance 
service or a public agency, volunteer fire department or a nonprofit corporation 
with which an ambulance service provider has contracted to provide ambulance 
services grant recipients.
SECTION  2523 .  256.12 (5) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
256.12 (5) (a)  From the appropriation account under s. 20.435 (1) (r), the 
department shall annually distribute funds to emergency medical responder 
departments or ambulance service providers that are public agencies, volunteer 
fire departments, or nonprofit corporations to purchase the training required for 
licensure and renewal of licensure as an emergency medical technician under s. 
256.15 (6) or for certification and renewal of certification as an emergency medical 
responder under s. 256.15 (8), and to pay for administration of the examination 
required for licensure or renewal of licensure as an emergency medical technician 
services practitioner under s. 256.15 (6) (a) 3. and (b) 1. or certification or renewal of 
certification as an emergency medical responder under s. 256.15 (8).
SECTION  2524 .  256.12 (5) (am) of the statutes is amended to read:
256.12 (5) (am)  If an emergency medical responder department or ambulance 
service provider does not use funds received under par. (a) within a calendar year, 
the emergency medical responder department or ambulance service provider may 
escrow those funds in the year in which the funds are distributed to the emergency 
medical responder department or ambulance service provider, except funds 
distributed for nondurable or disposable medical supplies or equipment or 
medications.  In a subsequent year, an emergency medical responder department or 
ambulance service provider may use escrowed funds to purchase the training 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1459 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2524
required for certification or renewal of certification as an emergency medical 
responder or licensure or renewal of licensure as an emergency medical services 
practitioner at any level or to pay for administration of the examination required for 
certification or renewal of certification as an emergency medical responder or for 
licensure or renewal of licensure as an emergency medical services practitioner at 
any level.
SECTION  2525 .  256.23 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
256.23 (5)  In accordance with s. 20.940, the The department shall submit to 
the federal department of health and human services a request for any state plan 
amendment, waiver or other approval that is required to implement this section 
and s. 49.45 (3) (em).  If federal approval is required, the department may not 
implement the collection of the fee under sub. (2) until it receives approval from the 
federal government to obtain federal matching funds.
SECTION  2526 .  256.42 of the statutes is created to read:
256.42   Emergency medical services grants.   (1)  In this section, 
Xmunicipality Y means a city, village, or town.
(2)  From the appropriation under s. 20.435 (1) (ck), the department shall 
award grants each fiscal year to municipalities to improve or expand emergency 
medical services.  From the moneys appropriated each fiscal year, the department 
shall do all of the following:
(a)  Award 25 percent to municipalities to support the development of 24-7 
paid service models in accordance with criteria developed by the department.
(b)  Award the remaining amount using a formula consisting of a base amount, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1460 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2526
determined by the department, for each municipality, plus a supplemental amount 
based on the population of the municipality.
SECTION  2527 .  257.01 (5) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
257.01 (5) (a)  An individual who is licensed as a physician, a physician 
assistant, or a podiatrist under ch. 448, licensed as a naturopathic doctor under ch. 
466, licensed as a registered nurse, licensed practical nurse, or nurse-midwife 
advanced practice registered nurse under ch. 441, licensed as a dentist or dental 
therapist under ch. 447, licensed as a pharmacist under ch. 450, licensed as a 
veterinarian or certified as a veterinary technician under ch. 89, or certified as a 
respiratory care practitioner under ch. 448.
SECTION  2528 .  257.01 (5) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
257.01 (5) (b)  An individual who was at any time within the previous 10 years, 
but is not currently, licensed as a physician, a physician assistant, or a podiatrist 
under ch. 448, licensed as a naturopathic doctor under ch. 466, licensed as a 
registered nurse, licensed practical nurse, or nurse-midwife, advanced practice 
registered nurse under ch. 441, licensed as a nurse-midwife under ch. 441, 2023 
stats., licensed as a dentist or dental therapist under ch. 447, licensed as a 
pharmacist under ch. 450, licensed as a veterinarian or certified as a veterinary 
technician under ch. 89, or certified as a respiratory care practitioner under ch. 448, 
if the individual [s license or certification was never revoked, limited, suspended, or 
denied renewal.
SECTION  2529 .  271.02 (6) (c) of the statutes, as affected by 2023 Wisconsin 
Act 267, is amended to read:
271.02 (6) (c)  For purposes of determining the percentage of a person 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1461 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2529
controlled by any other person, the person's interest shall be aggregated with the 
interest of any other immediate family member, including the person's spouse, 
parents, children, siblings, mothers-in-law, fathers-in-law parents-in-law, sons-in-
law, daughters-in-law, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, and any other person who 
shares the person's home.
SECTION  2530 .  271.05 (5) (e) 7. of the statutes, as affected by 2023 Wisconsin 
Act 267, is amended to read:
271.05 (5) (e) 7.  If the applicant is an individual, the applicant has not failed 
to comply, after appropriate notice, with a subpoena or warrant issued by the 
department of children and families or a county child support agency under s. 59.53 
(5) and related to paternity parentage or child support proceedings and is not 
delinquent in making court-ordered payments of child or family support, 
maintenance, birth expenses, medical expenses or other expenses related to the 
support of a child or former spouse, as provided in a memorandum of understanding 
entered into under s. 49.857.
SECTION  2531 .  271.05 (7) (b) of the statutes, as affected by 2023 Wisconsin 
Act 267, is amended to read:
271.05 (7) (b)  The division shall restrict or suspend a license issued to an 
individual if the individual fails to comply, after appropriate notice, with a 
subpoena or warrant issued by the department of children and families or a county 
child support agency under s. 59.53 (5) and related to paternity parentage or child 
support proceedings or is delinquent in making court-ordered payments of child or 
family support, maintenance, birth expenses, medical expenses, or other expenses 
related to the support of a child or former spouse, as provided in a memorandum of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1462 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2531
understanding entered into under s. 49.857.  A licensee whose license is restricted 
or suspended under this paragraph is entitled to a notice and hearing only as 
provided in a memorandum of understanding entered into under s. 49.857 and is 
not entitled to any other notice or hearing under this chapter.
SECTION  2532 .  281.34 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
281.34 (2)  A PPROVAL  REQUIRED  FOR HIGH  CAPACITY  WELLS .  Except as 
provided under sub. (2g), an owner shall apply to the department for approval 
before construction of a high capacity well begins.  Except as provided under sub. 
(2g), no person may construct or withdraw water from a high capacity well without 
the approval of the department under this section or under s. 281.17 (1), 2001 stats.  
An owner applying for approval under this subsection shall pay a fee of $500 $1,000.
SECTION  2533 .  281.54 of the statutes is created to read:
281.54   County well testing grant program.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this 
section:
(a)  XPFASY means a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance.
(b)  XPrivate water supply Y has the meaning given in s. 281.77 (1) (a).
(2)  FINANCIAL  ASSISTANCE .  The department shall administer a program to 
provide grants from the appropriation under s. 20.370 (6) (ew) to counties for the 
purpose of providing sampling and testing services to owners of private water 
supplies to sample and test for PFAS, nitrates, bacteria, and lead.
(3)  RULE MAKING .  The department shall promulgate rules to administer this 
section.
SECTION  2534 .  281.57 (7) (c) 1. of the statutes, as affected by 2017 Wisconsin 
Act 59, is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1463 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2534
281.57 (7) (c) 1.  Metropolitan sewerage districts that serve 1st class cities are 
limited in each fiscal year to receiving total grant awards not to exceed 33 percent of 
the sum of the amounts in the schedule for that fiscal year for the appropriation 
under s. 20.165 (2) (kf) and the amount authorized under sub. (10) for that fiscal 
year plus the unencumbered balance at the end of the preceding fiscal year for the 
amount authorized under sub. (10).  This subdivision is not applicable to grant 
awards provided during fiscal years 1985-86, 1986-87, 1988-89 and 1989-90.
SECTION  2535 .  281.59 (4) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
281.59 (4) (f)  Revenue obligations may be contracted by the building 
commission when it reasonably appears to the building commission that all 
obligations incurred under this subsection, and all payments under an agreement 
or ancillary arrangement entered into under s. 18.55 (6) with respect to revenue 
obligations issued under this subsection, can be fully paid on a timely basis from 
moneys received or anticipated to be received.  Revenue obligations issued under 
this subsection for the clean water fund program and safe drinking water loan 
program shall not exceed $2,526,700,000 $3,323,300,000 in principal amount, 
excluding obligations issued to refund outstanding revenue obligation notes.  The 
building commission may contract additional revenue obligations in an amount up 
to $24,700,000.  The building commission may contract additional revenue 
obligations in an amount up to $46,000,000.
SECTION  2536 .  281.61 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
281.61 (6)  PRIORITY  LIST.  The department shall establish a priority list that 
ranks each safe drinking water loan program project.  The department shall 
promulgate rules for determining project rankings that, to the extent possible, give 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1464 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2536
priority to projects that address the most serious risks to human health, that are 
necessary to ensure compliance with the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 USC 300f to 
300j-26, and that assist applicants that are most in need on a per household basis, 
according to affordability criteria specified in the rules.  For the purpose of ranking 
projects under this subsection, the department shall treat a project to upgrade a 
public water system to provide continuous disinfection of the water that it 
distributes as if the public water system were a surface water system that federal 
law requires to provide continuous disinfection.   For the purpose of ranking projects 
under this subsection, if the department of health services has recommended an 
enforcement standard for a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance, the 
department of natural resources shall treat a project relating to that perfluoroalkyl 
or polyfluoroalkyl substance as if a maximum contaminant level for that substance 
has been attained or exceeded.
SECTION  2537 .  281.61 (8) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
281.61 (8) (b)  The department of administration shall allocate the amount 
appropriated under s. 20.320 (2) (a) to projects involving forgivable loans to private 
users of public water systems to replace lead service lines.
SECTION  2538 .  281.73 of the statutes is created to read:
281.73   Winter road safety improvement grants.   (1)  The department 
shall develop and administer a program to provide financial assistance to 
municipalities for eligible expenditures for equipment critical to winter road safety.
(2)  An individual grant awarded under this section may not exceed $75,000.
(3)  The department shall promulgate rules necessary to administer this 
section, including rules that specify criteria for determining eligible recipients and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1465 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2538
expenditures, which shall include expenditures for live-edge blades, salt spreader 
control systems, brine mixers, and structural upgrades to salt storage facilities to 
prevent ground water contamination.
(4)  From the appropriation under s. 20.370 (6) (aa), the department may 
award grants to eligible recipients for eligible expenditures under this section.
SECTION  2539 .  281.75 (1) (b) (intro.), 1., 2. and 3. of the statutes are amended 
to read:
281.75 (1) (b) (intro.)  XContaminated well Y or Xcontaminated private water 
supplyY means a well or private water supply which that does any of the following:
1.  Produces water containing one or more substances of public health concern 
in excess of a primary maximum contaminant level promulgated in the national 
drinking water standards in 40 CFR 141 and 143;.
2.  Produces water containing one or more substances of public health concern 
in excess of an enforcement standard under ch. 160; or.
3.  Is subject to a written advisory opinion, issued by the department or the 
department of health services, containing a specific descriptive reference to the well 
or private water supply and recommending that the well or private water supply not 
be used because of potential human health risks.
SECTION  2540 .  281.75 (1) (b) 4. of the statutes is created to read:
281.75 (1) (b) 4.  Produces water containing at least 10 parts per billion of 
arsenic or at least 10 parts per million of nitrate nitrogen.
SECTION  2541 .  281.75 (1) (b) 5. of the statutes is created to read:
281.75 (1) (b) 5.  Produces water containing levels of a perfluoroalkyl or 
polyfluoroalkyl substance in excess of the maximum level set out in any applicable 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1466 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2541
federal or state health advisory for that substance, if no primary maximum 
contaminant level under 40 CFR 141 and 143 or enforcement standard under ch. 
160 for that substance has been promulgated.
SECTION  2542 .  281.75 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
281.75 (1) (f)  XPrivate water supply Y means a residential water supply or, a 
livestock water supply, or a transient noncommunity water supply.
SECTION  2543 .  281.75 (1) (gm) of the statutes is created to read:
281.75 (1) (gm)  XTransient noncommunity water supply Y means a water 
system that serves at least 25 persons at least 60 days of the year but does not 
regularly serve at least 25 of the same persons over 6 months per year.  XTransient 
noncommunity water supply Y does not include a public water system that serves at 
least 15 service connections used by year-round residents or regularly serves at 
least 25 year-round residents.
SECTION  2544 .  281.75 (4m) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
281.75 (4m)  (a)  In order to be eligible for an award under this section, the 
annual family income of the landowner or lessee of property on which is located a 
contaminated water supply or a well subject to abandonment may not exceed 
$65,000 $100,000.
SECTION  2545 .  281.75 (5) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
281.75 (5) (f)  The Except as provided in par. (g), the department shall allocate 
money for the payment of claims according to the order in which completed claims 
are received.  The department may conditionally approve a completed claim even if 
the appropriation under s. 20.370 (6) (cr) is insufficient to pay the claim.  The 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1467 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2545
department shall allocate money for the payment of a claim which is conditionally 
approved as soon as funds become available.
SECTION  2546 .  281.75 (5) (g) of the statutes is created to read:
281.75 (5) (g)  If the appropriations under s. 20.370 (6) (cf) or (cr) are 
insufficient to pay claims, the department may, for claims based on nitrate levels, 
allocate money for the payment of those claims in the following order of priority:
1.  Claims based on water containing more than 40 parts per million of nitrate 
nitrogen.
2.  Claims based on water containing more than 30 but not more than 40 parts 
per million of nitrate nitrogen.
3.  Claims based on water containing more than 25 but not more than 30 parts 
per million of nitrate nitrogen.
4.  Claims based on water containing more than 20 but not more than 25 parts 
per million of nitrate nitrogen.
5.  Claims based on water containing more than 10 but not more than 20 parts 
per million of nitrate nitrogen.
SECTION  2547 .  281.75 (6) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
281.75 (6) (a)  Contamination of a private water supply, as defined under sub. 
(1) (b) 1. or, 2., 4., or 5. is required to be established by analysis of at least 2 samples 
of water, taken at least 2 weeks apart, in a manner which assures the validity of the 
test results.  The samples shall be tested by a laboratory certified under s. 299.11.
SECTION  2548 .  281.75 (7) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
281.75 (7) (a)  If the department finds that the claimant meets all the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1468 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2548
requirements of this section and rules promulgated under this section and that the 
private water supply is contaminated or that the well is a well subject to 
abandonment, the department shall issue an award.  The Except as provided under 
par. (am), the award may not pay more than 75 percent of the eligible costs.  The 
award may not pay any portion of eligible costs in excess of $16,000.
SECTION  2549 .  281.75 (7) (am) of the statutes is created to read:
281.75 (7) (am)  An award under this subsection may pay up to 100 percent of 
the eligible costs if the annual family income of the claimant is below the median 
family income for the state, as determined by U.S. bureau of the census.
SECTION  2550 .  281.75 (7) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2551 .  281.75 (9) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2552 .  281.79 of the statutes is created to read:
281.79   Negotiations for alternate source of water due to PFAS 
contamination.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XMunicipality Y means a city, village, town, county, utility district, lake 
protection district, sewerage district, or municipal airport.
(b)  XPrivate water supply Y has the meaning given in s. 281.77 (1) (a).
(2)  MEDIATION .  A municipality that contains private water supplies that have 
been contaminated by a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance in excess of a 
state or federal drinking water standard, a state groundwater standard, or a public 
health recommendation from the department of health services under s. 160.07 
may request that the department appoint a mediator to assist in negotiations for 
the supply of an alternate source of water provided by or connected to a water 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1469 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2552
supply located within another municipality.  The department may not appoint a 
mediator under this section unless the department receives written consent from 
both municipalities.  A person responsible under s. 292.11 (3), if any, may 
participate in negotiations.  The department shall promulgate rules to implement 
this section, including rules for the allocation of the cost of the mediator.  
SECTION  2553 .  283.31 (4) (g) of the statutes is created to read:
283.31 (4) (g)  That, if the permit allows for the land application of sewage 
sludge, the permittee shall, before first applying sludge and at least once per year 
thereafter, sample and test the sludge for all perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
substances for which there is a state or federal standard, a public health 
recommendation from the department of health services under s. 160.07, or a 
health advisory issued by the federal environmental protection agency.  The 
permittee shall, before applying sludge to land in any year, report the sampling and 
testing results to the department and to the property owner of each tax parcel upon 
which sludge will be applied.  The sampling and testing required under this 
paragraph shall be in addition to any sampling and testing otherwise required 
under the permit.
SECTION  2554 .  283.31 (4) (h) of the statutes is created to read:
283.31 (4) (h)  That, if the permittee is a treatment work, the permittee will 
test all sewage sludge for the presence of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
substances and report the testing results to the department.
SECTION  2555 .  283.31 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
283.31 (8)  The holder of a permit under this section for a concentrated animal 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1470 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2555
feeding operation shall annually pay to the department a fee of $345 $545, which 
shall be credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.370 (9) (ag).  The 
department shall annually submit a report to the joint committee on finance and, 
under s. 13.172 (3), to the standing committees of the legislature with jurisdiction 
over agricultural and environmental matters describing the use of the moneys 
credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.370 (9) (ag) under this subsection 
and the use of the moneys appropriated under s. 20.370 (9) (ap).
SECTION  2556 .  283.33 (8m) of the statutes is created to read:
283.33 (8m)   RULES  FOR STORM  WATER  POND  SAFETY .  The department shall 
promulgate rules under sub. (8) establishing that any pond located in an area with 
a population density of not less than 1,000 people per square mile that is 
constructed as part of an activity for which a permit is required under sub. (1) or s. 
283.31 must include one or more of the following features for safety:
(a)  A shallow ledge around the periphery of the pond.
(b)  Vegetation that is not less than 24 inches high between the pond and any 
easy point of access.
(c)  Any other alternative safety feature authorized by the department by rule.
SECTION  2557 .  283.35 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
283.35 (1)  A UTHORIZATION .  Instead of issuing a separate permit to an 
individual point source, the department may issue a general permit applicable to a 
designated area of the state authorizing discharges from specified categories or 
classes of point sources located within that area.  The department shall charge a 
processing fee of $425 for each permit issued under this subsection.
SECTION  2558 .  283.35 (1m) of the statutes is repealed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1471 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2559
SECTION  2559 .  285.69 (2) (a) 12. of the statutes is amended to read:
285.69 (2) (a) 12.  That the fee billed in 2013 and each year thereafter to 2024 
equals $35.71 per ton of emissions specified under subd. 8. and that the fee billed in 
2025 and each year thereafter equals $63.69 per ton of emissions specified under 
subd. 8.
SECTION  2560 .  289.33 (3) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
289.33 (3) (d)  XLocal approval Y includes any requirement for a permit, license, 
authorization, approval, variance or exception or any restriction, condition of 
approval or other restriction, regulation, requirement or prohibition imposed by a 
charter ordinance, general ordinance, zoning ordinance, resolution or regulation by 
a town, city, village, county or special purpose district, including without limitation 
because of enumeration any ordinance, resolution or regulation adopted under s. 
91.73, 2007 stats., s. 59.03 (2), 59.11 (5), 59.42 (1), 59.48, 59.51 (1) and (2), 59.52 (2), 
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (11), (12), (13), (15), (16), (17), (18), (19), (20), (21), (22), (23), (24), 
(25), (26) and (27), 59.53 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (11), (12), (13), (14), (15), 
(19), (20) and (23), 59.535 (2), (3) and (4), 59.54 (1), (2), (3), (4), (4m), (5), (6), (7), (8), 
(10), (11), (12), (16), (17), (18), (19), (20), (21), (22), (23), (24), (25) (a), and (26), 59.55 
(3), (4), (5) and (6), 59.56 (1), (2), (4), (5), (6), (7), (9), (10), (11), (12), (12m), (13) and 
(16), 59.57 (1), 59.58 (1) and (5), 59.62, 59.69, 59.692, 59.693, 59.696, 59.697, 
59.698, 59.70 (1), (2), (3), (5), (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), (21), (22) and (23), 59.79 (1), (2), 
(3), (5), (7), (8), and (10), 59.792 (2) and (3), 59.80, 59.82, 60.10, 60.22, 60.23, 60.54, 
60.77, 61.34, 61.35, 61.351, 61.353, 61.354, 62.11, 62.23, 62.231, 62.233, 62.234, 
66.0101, 66.0415, 87.30, 196.58, 200.11 (8), 236.45, 281.43 or 349.16, subch. VIII of 
ch. 60, or subch. III of ch. 91.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1472 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2561
SECTION  2561 .  292.11 (8m) of the statutes is created to read:
292.11 (8m)   SITE-SPECIFIC  STANDARDS .  If no standard exists for a hazardous 
substance, the person responsible under sub. (3) shall propose site-specific 
environmental standards for department approval for the actions required under 
this chapter and rules promulgated under this chapter.
SECTION  2562 .  292.11 (9) (g) of the statutes is created to read:
292.11 (9) (g) 1.  In this paragraph, XPFASY means a perfluoroalkyl or 
polyfluoroalkyl substances for which there is a state or federal standard, a public 
health recommendation from the department of health services under s. 160.07, or 
a health advisory issued by the federal environmental protection agency.
2.  Except as provided in subd. 3, a person who possesses or controls property 
where a PFAS discharge occurred is exempt from subs. (3), (4), and (7) (b) and (c) for 
the PFAS discharge if all of the following apply:
a.  The property is exclusively used for agricultural use or residential use.
b.  The discharge was caused by land application of sludge permitted under ch. 
283.
c.  The person who possesses or controls the property where the PFAS 
discharge occurred agrees to allow the department, any authorized representatives 
of the department, any party that possessed or controlled the PFAS or caused the 
discharge of the PFAS, and any consultant or contractor of such a party to enter the 
property to take action to respond to the discharge.
d.  The person who possesses or controls the property where the PFAS 
discharge occurred does not interfere with any action taken in response to the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1473 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2562
discharge and does not take any action that worsens or contributes to the PFAS 
discharge.
e.  The person who possesses or controls the property where the PFAS 
discharge occurred follows any other condition that the department determines is 
reasonable and necessary to ensure that the department or other person described 
in subd. 2. c. is able to adequately respond to the discharge, including taking action 
necessary to protect human health, safety, or welfare or the environment, taking 
into consideration the current or intended use of the property.
f.  The person who possesses or controls the property where the PFAS 
discharge occurred allows the department to limit public access to the property if 
the department determines such limitation of access is necessary to prevent an 
imminent threat to human health, safety, or welfare or to the environment.
3. a.  The exemption under subd. 2. does not apply to any substances other 
than PFAS.
b.  The exemption under subd. 2. does not apply if the person that possesses or 
controls the property where the PFAS discharge occurred takes action that worsens 
or contributes to the PFAS discharge.
4.  A person who is exempt from subs. (3), (4), and (7) (b) and (c) pursuant to 
subd. 2. shall provide written disclosure to any prospective purchaser of the 
property, either through sale or land contract, before entering into a contract and to 
prospective tenants of the property, including agricultural and residential tenants 
before entering into a lease agreement.  Written disclosure shall be provided to any 
current tenants as soon as reasonably practicable and upon any reissuance or 
renewal of a lease.  Written disclosure shall include, at a minimum, a description of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1474 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2562
the type of contamination, the location and description of any action taken to 
control or treat the contamination, PFAS sample dates and results, and a 
description of compliance with reporting required under sub. (2).  A copy of the 
disclosure shall be provided to the department upon request.
5.  The exemption under subd. 2 may not be transferred to a subsequent owner 
of the property on which the PFAS discharge occurred.  Each person that possesses 
or controls the property where the PFAS discharge occurred must establish 
eligibility for the exemption under subd. 2.
6.  A person may submit to the department information supporting that the 
person satisfies the requirements of subd. 2.  The department shall issue a written 
determination that a person who possesses or controls property where the PFAS 
discharge occurred is exempt from subs. (3), (4), and (7) (b) and (c) if the person 
satisfies the requirements in subd. 2.  The department may request additional 
information before issuing a determination.  The department may revoke its 
determination if it determines that any of the requirements of subd. 2 cease to be 
met.  The department may, in accordance with rules that it promulgates, assess and 
collect fees to offset the costs of issuing determinations under this subdivision.
7.  The exemption under subd. 2. does not apply after December 31, 2035.
SECTION  2563 .  292.11 (14) of the statutes is created to read:
292.11 (14)  D ETERMINATION  OF RESPONSIBLE  PARTY .  Applications for 
compensation or grants under the well compensation program under s. 281.75, the 
county well testing grant program under s. 281.54, or any state financial assistance 
program funded by the federal American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, P.L. 117-2, may 
not be used by the department to determine responsibility under sub. (3).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1475 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2564
SECTION  2564 .  292.31 (1) (d) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
292.31 (1) (d)  Access to information.   (intro.)  Upon the request of any officer, 
employee, or authorized representative of the department, any person who 
generated, transported, treated, stored, or disposed of solid or hazardous waste 
which that may have been disposed of at a site or facility under investigation by the 
department and any person who generated solid or hazardous waste at a site or 
facility under investigation by the department that was transported to, treated at, 
stored at, or disposed of at another site, facility, or location shall provide the officer, 
employee, or authorized representative access to any records or documents in that 
person[s custody, possession, or control which relate to:
SECTION  2565 .  292.31 (1) (d) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:
292.31 (1) (d) 1m.  The type and quantity of waste generated at the site or 
facility that was transported to, treated at, stored at, or disposed of at another site, 
facility, or location, and the dates and locations of these activities.
SECTION  2566 .  292.66 of the statutes is created to read:
292.66   Revitalize Wisconsin program.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XBrownfield Y means a property that is abandoned, idle, or underused, the 
expansion or redevelopment of which is adversely affected by actual or perceived 
discharge or environmental pollution.
(b)  XDischarge Y has the meaning given in s. 292.01 (3).
(c)  XInnocent landowner Y means any of the following:
1.  A property owner that acquired the property prior to November 1, 2006, has 
continuously owned the property since the date of acquisition, and can 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1476 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2566
demonstrate, through documentation, that the discharge or environmental 
pollution on the property was caused by another person and that the property 
owner did not know and had no reason to know of the discharge or environmental 
pollution when the owner acquired the property.
2.  A property owner that acquired the property on or after November 1, 2006, 
has continuously owned the property since the date of acquisition, and can 
demonstrate, through documentation, that the property owner conducted all 
appropriate inquiries in compliance with 40 CFR part 312 prior to acquisition, that 
the discharge or environmental pollution on the property was caused by another 
person, and that the property owner did not know and had no reason to know of the 
discharge or environmental pollution when the owner acquired the property.
(d)  XInterim action Y means a response action that is taken to contain or 
stabilize a discharge or environmental pollution at a site or facility, in order to 
minimize any threats to public health, safety, or welfare or to the environment, 
while other response actions are being taken or planned for the site or facility.
(e)  XLocal governmental unit Y has the meaning given in s. 292.11 (9) (e) 1.
(f)  XPrivate party Y means any of the following:
1.  A bank, trust company, savings bank, or credit union.
2.  A developer, as defined in s. 66.0617 (1) (b).
3.  An organization or enterprise, other than a sole proprietorship, that is 
operated for profit or that is nonprofit and nongovernmental, including an 
association, business trust, corporation, joint venture, limited liability company, 
limited liability partnership, partnership, or syndicate.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1477 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2566
4.  An innocent landowner.
(g)  XRemedial action Y has the meaning given in s. 292.12 (1) (d).
(2)  POWERS  AND DUTIES  OF THE DEPARTMENT .  (a)  The department shall 
administer a program to award aids from the appropriation under s. 20.370 (6) (et) 
to eligible entities under sub. (5).
(b)  The department may not award aid to an entity under this section if that 
entity caused the discharge or environmental pollution at the site or facility for 
which aid is awarded, except to eligible entities under sub. (5) for sites or facilities 
under sub. (4) (a).
(c)  The department may award aid to eligible entities under sub. (5) in the 
form of grants or direct services or, for sites or facilities under sub. (4) (a), in the 
form of reimbursements.
(d)  The department may require a match from an eligible entity under sub. 
(5), in the form of cash or in-kind services, for aid awarded under this section, 
except the department may not require a match from an eligible entity for a site or 
facility for which funds are designated under sub. (3) (a).
(3)  ALLOCATION  OF FUNDS .  (a)  In any fiscal year, if there remain any sites or 
facilities under sub. (4) (a) for which a claim for reimbursement was submitted 
before the effective date of this paragraph .... [LRB inserts date], but for which the 
claim has not been paid, the department shall designate $1,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under s. 20.370 (6) (et), or the total amount of such unpaid claims, 
whichever is less, to the payment of those claims.
(b)  In any fiscal year, if there remain any sites or facilities under sub. (4) (a) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1478 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2566
for which an application for eligibility was submitted before the effective date of this 
paragraph .... [LRB inserts date], but for which a claim has not been made to the 
department, the department shall designate $450,000 of the funds appropriated 
under s. 20.370 (6) (et) to the payment of claims for such sites or facilities, until all 
such sites or facilities have received a case closure letter under s. 292.12.
(c)  The department shall designate 15 percent of the funds appropriated 
under s. 20.370 (6) (et) to provide aid under this section in small or disadvantaged 
communities.
(d)  The department may not provide more than one award of aid under this 
section for a site or facility in a single fiscal year, except for sites or facilities under 
sub. (4) (a).
(4)  ELIGIBLE  SITES  AND FACILITIES .  An eligible entity under sub. (5) may 
receive aid under this section for any of the following sites or facilities:
(a)  Sites or facilities for which an application for eligibility was submitted 
under the dry cleaner environmental response program under s. 292.65 and that 
were deemed eligible for that program before the effective date of this paragraph .... 
[LRB inserts date].
(b)  Brownfields.
(c)  Sites or facilities regulated under s. 292.11 that are owned by entities that 
are exempt from s. 292.11 (3), (4), and (7) (b) and (c) as provided under s. 292.11 (9) 
(e), 292.13, or 292.21.
(d)  Sites or facilities regulated under s. 292.11 that are owned by private 
parties.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1479 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2566
(5)  ELIGIBLE  ENTITIES .  The following entities are eligible for an award under 
this section.
(a)  Local governmental units that did not cause the discharge or 
environmental pollution.
(b)  Owners or operators of dry cleaning facilities that own or operate an 
eligible site or facility under sub. (4) (a).
(c)  A private party, other than a dry cleaning facility under par. (b), that did 
not cause the discharge or environmental pollution and can demonstrate that the 
private party [s property was fairly acquired through an arm [s-length transaction.
(6)  ELIGIBLE  ACTIVITIES ; INELIGIBLE  COSTS .  (a)  An entity that receives aid 
under this section shall comply with all state and federal laws and rules 
promulgated by the department, unless otherwise provided under this section or 
rules promulgated under this section.
(b)  The department may award aid under this section to cover the costs of any 
of the following activities:
1.  Assessment and investigation of a discharge or environmental pollution.
2.  Interim actions and remedial actions to remove hazardous substances from 
contaminated media.
3.  Treatment and disposal of contaminated media.
4.  Vapor intrusion assessment and mitigation.
5.  Removal of abandoned containers, as defined in s. 292.41 (1).
6.  Asbestos abatement activities, as defined in s. 254.11 (2), conducted as part 
of redevelopment activities.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1480 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2566
7.  Environmental monitoring.
8.  Restoration or replacement of a private potable water supply, if eligible for 
temporary emergency water supplies under rules promulgated by the department.
9.  The removal of underground hazardous substance or petroleum product 
storage tanks.
10.  Preparation of documentation to apply for case closure under this chapter.
11.  Other activities identified by the department as reasonable and necessary 
for proper investigation, analysis of remedial action options, remedial action 
planning, and remedial action to meet the requirements of s. 292.11.
(c)  The department may not award aid under this section to cover any of the 
following costs:
1.  The cost of activities conducted prior to the award of aid under this section, 
except for activities conducted at a site or facility under sub. (4) (a).
2.  The cost of activities that the department determines are not integral to the 
investigation and remediation of a discharge or environmental pollution.
3.  Legal fees.
4.  The cost of investigations or remedial action conducted outside this state.
5.  Costs for financing eligible activities under par. (b).
(7)  APPLICATION  FOR AID.  An applicant for aid under this section shall submit 
an application on a form prescribed by the department and shall include any 
information the department finds necessary to evaluate the eligibility of the project 
and amount of aid to be awarded.
(8)  RULES ; RECORDS .  The department shall promulgate rules to administer 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1481 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2566
the program under this section, including rules prescribing the criteria for 
determining the amount of aid to be awarded, the records that must be maintained 
by an applicant, and the periods for which those records must be retained.  The 
department may inspect any document in the possession of an applicant or any 
other person if the document is relevant to an application for aid under this section.
SECTION  2567 .  292.67 of the statutes is created to read:
292.67   PFAS community grant program.   (1)  D EFINITIONS .  In this 
section:
(a)  XClass B firefighting foam Y has the meaning given in s. 299.48 (1) (a).
(b)  XMunicipality Y means a city, village, town, county, tribal governing body, 
utility district, lake protection district, sewerage district, or municipal airport.
(c)  XPFASY means a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance.
(2)  FINANCIAL  ASSISTANCE .  The department shall administer a program to 
provide grants from the appropriation under s. 20.370 (4) (mw) to municipalities 
that meet the requirements under sub. (3) for the purpose of conducting any of the 
eligible activities under sub. (4).
(3)  ELIGIBILITY  PREREQUISITES .  A grant may be awarded under sub. (2) only 
if one of the following has occurred:
(a)  The municipality tested or trained with a class B firefighting foam that 
contained intentionally added PFAS in accordance with applicable state and federal 
law, or a 3rd party tested or trained with a class B firefighting foam that contained 
intentionally added PFAS within the area controlled by the municipality.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1482 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2567
(b)  The municipality applied biosolids to land under a permit issued by DNR 
under s. 283.31.
(c)  PFAS are impacting the municipality [s drinking water supply or surface 
water or groundwater within the area controlled by the municipality and the 
responsible party is unknown or is unwilling or unable to take the necessary 
response actions.
(d)  PFAS contamination in groundwater is impacting private wells within the 
area controlled by the municipality.
(4)  ELIGIBLE  ACTIVITIES .  The department may award a grant under sub. (2) 
for any of the following activities:
(a)  Investigating potential PFAS impacts to the air, land, or water at a site or 
facility for the purpose of reducing or eliminating environmental contamination.
(b)  Treating or disposing of PFAS-containing firefighting foam containers 
from a municipal site or facility.
(c)  Sampling a private water supply within 3 miles of a site or facility known 
to contain PFAS or to have caused a PFAS discharge.
(d)  Assisting owners of private wells with the cost of installation of filters, 
treatment, or well replacement.
(e)  Providing a temporary emergency water supply, a water treatment system, 
or bulk water to replace water contaminated with PFAS.
(f)  Conducting emergency, interim, or remedial actions to mitigate, treat, 
dispose of, or remove PFAS contamination to the air, land, or waters of the state.
(g)  Removing or treating PFAS in a public water system using the most cost-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1483 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2567
effective method to provide safe drinking water in areas where PFAS levels exceed 
the maximum contaminant level for PFAS under ch. 281 or an enforcement 
standard for PFAS under ch. 160 or where the state has issued a health advisory for 
PFAS.
(h)  Creating a new public water system or connecting private well owners to 
an existing public water system in an area in which there is widespread PFAS 
contamination in private water supplies.
(i)  Sampling and testing water for PFAS contamination in a public, private, or 
tribal elementary or secondary school, a child care center that is licensed under s. 
48.65, a child care program that is established or contracted for under s. 120.13 
(14), or a child care provider that is certified under s. 48.651.
(5)  APPLICATION .  A municipality shall apply for a grant on a form prescribed 
by the department and shall include any information that the department finds 
necessary to determine the eligibility of the project, identify the funding requested, 
determine the priority of the project, and calculate the amount of a grant.
(6)  EVALUATION  CRITERIA .  The department, in awarding grants under this 
section, shall consider all of the following criteria:
(a)  The municipality [s demonstrated commitment to performing and 
completing eligible activities, including the municipality [s financial commitment 
and ability to successfully administer grants.
(b)  The degree to which the project will have a positive impact on public 
health and the environment.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1484 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2567
(c)  Other criteria that the department finds necessary to prioritize the funds 
available for awarding grants.
(7)  MATCHING  FUNDS .  The department may not distribute a grant under this 
section unless the applicant contributes matching funds equal to at least 20 percent 
of the amount of the grant.  Matching funds may be in the form of cash, in-kind 
contributions, or both.
(8)  RULE MAKING .  The department shall promulgate rules necessary to 
administer this section, including procedures for submission, review, and 
determination of applications for assistance under this section.  The rules 
promulgated under this subsection shall give priority to providing assistance to 
owners of private wells contaminated with PFAS.
SECTION  2568 .  292.74 of the statutes is created to read:
292.74   Financial responsibility for PFAS.   The department may, if it 
determines doing so is necessary to protect human health or the environment, 
require a person who possesses or controls or who causes the discharge of a 
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance, and any person who manufactures any 
product that contains intentionally added perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl 
substances, to provide proof of financial responsibility for conducting emergency 
response actions, remedial actions, environmental repair, and long-term care to 
address contamination by a potential discharge of a perfluoroalkyl or 
polyfluoroalkyl substance or environmental pollution that may be caused by a 
discharge of such substances.  The department shall establish, by rule, the 
procedure for determining whether requiring a proof of financial responsibility is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1485 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2568
necessary to protect human health or the environment, and may establish 
requirements for types of financial responsibility, methods for calculating amounts 
of financial responsibility, access and default, bankruptcy notifications, and any 
other requirements the department determines is necessary under this section.  
The proof of financial responsibility required under this section shall be in addition 
to any other proof of financial responsibility or financial assurance required under 
this chapter.  This section does not apply to a person exempt under s. 292.11 (9).
SECTION  2569 .  299.487 of the statutes is created to read:
299.487   Transportation and disposal of PFAS.   (1)  In this section:
(a)  XEnvironmental justice Y means the fair treatment and meaningful 
involvement of all individuals, regardless of race, color, national origin, educational 
level, or income, with respect to the development, implementation, and enforcement 
of environmental laws, regulations, and policies to ensure that no population of 
color or community of color, indigenous community, or low-income community shall 
be exposed to a disproportionate burden of the negative human health and 
environmental impacts of pollution or other environmental hazards.
(b)  XPFASY means a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance.
(2)  A person disposing of PFAS, or transporting PFAS for the purpose of 
disposal, shall attempt to the greatest extent possible to avoid disposing of PFAS in, 
or transporting PFAS to, any location where such disposal or transportation will 
contribute to environmental justice concerns and shall consider all reasonable 
alternatives for transport and disposal of PFAS.  The department shall assist any 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1486 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2569
person, upon request, in evaluating the environmental justice impacts of the 
person[s disposal or transportation of PFAS.
SECTION  2570 .  299.65 of the statutes is created to read:
299.65   Commercial vessels subject to federal Vessel Incidental 
Discharge Act.   (1) (a)  Subject to pars. (b) and (c), the owner or operator of any 
commercial vessel subject to the requirements of the federal Vessel Incidental 
Discharge Act under 33 USC 1322 (p) that has operated outside this state shall pay 
to the department, no later than 5 days prior to arriving in a port of this state, $650 
per arrival to a port of this state.
(b)  The owner or operator of a commercial vessel engaged in coastwise trade 
that is subject to the requirements of 46 USC 55101 to 55103 may not be required to 
pay more than $3,250 in fees per calendar year under this subsection.
(c)  The owner or operator of a commercial vessel that is subject to the 
requirements of the federal Vessel Incidental Discharge Act under 33 USC 1322 (p) 
may not be required to pay more than $3,250 in fees per calendar year under this 
subsection.
(2)  The department may adjust the amount of the fee under sub. (1) (a) once 
every 5 years to account for any changes in the U.S. consumer price index for all 
urban consumers, U.S. city average, as determined by the U.S. department of labor 
for the month of October immediately preceding the date of adjustment, as provided 
under 33 USC 1322 (p) (9) (A) (iv) (III) (aa).
(3)  The department shall credit all fees collected under sub. (1) (a) to the 
appropriation account under s. 20.370 (4) (aj).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1487 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2571
SECTION  2571 .  299.66 of the statutes is renumbered 299.66 (1).
SECTION  2572 .  299.66 (2) of the statutes is created to read:
299.66 (2) (a)  The department may enter into a memorandum of agreement 
with the U.S. Coast Guard concerning implementation and enforcement of the 
provisions of 33 USC 1322 and any regulations promulgated by the secretary of the 
U.S. department of homeland security under 33 USC 1322 (p) (5).
(b)  If the department enters into a memorandum of agreement with the U.S. 
Coast Guard under par. (a), an employee or agent of the department may board and 
inspect any vessel that is subject to s. 299.65 to determine the state of compliance 
with the federal Vessel Incidental Discharge Act under 33 USC 1322 (p) and any 
regulations promulgated thereunder.
SECTION  2573 .  301.12 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
301.12 (1)  Liability and the collection and enforcement of such liability for the 
care, maintenance, services, and supplies specified in this section is governed 
exclusively by this section, except in cases of child support ordered by a court under 
s. 938.183 (4), 938.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 938.357 (5m) (a), or 938.363 (2) or ch. 767 
or s. 938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., or s. 938.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats.
SECTION  2574 .  301.12 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
301.12 (2m)   The liability specified in sub. (2) shall not apply to persons 17 
and older adults receiving care, maintenance, services, and supplies provided by 
prisons named in s. 302.01.
SECTION  2575 .  301.12 (14) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
301.12 (14) (a)  Except as provided in pars. (b) and (c), liability of a person 
specified in sub. (2) or s. 301.03 (18) for care and maintenance of persons under 17 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1488 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2575
years of age minors in residential, nonmedical facilities such as group homes, foster 
homes, residential care centers for children and youth, and juvenile correctional 
institutions is determined in accordance with the cost-based fee established under 
s. 301.03 (18).  The department shall bill the liable person up to any amount of 
liability not paid by an insurer under s. 632.89 (2) or (4m) or by other 3rd-party 
benefits, subject to rules that include formulas governing ability to pay 
promulgated by the department under s. 301.03 (18).  Any liability of the resident 
not payable by any other person terminates when the resident reaches age 17 
becomes an adult, unless the liable person has prevented payment by any act or 
omission.
SECTION  2576 .  301.12 (14) (e) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
301.12 (14) (e) 1.  An order issued under s. 938.183 (4), 938.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) 
(a), 938.357 (5m) (a), or 938.363 (2) or s. 938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., or s. 938.357 
(5m) (a), 2023 stats., for support determined under this subsection constitutes an 
assignment of all commissions, earnings, salaries, wages, pension benefits, income 
continuation insurance benefits under s. 40.62, duty disability benefits under s. 
40.65, benefits under ch. 102 or 108, and other money due or to be due in the future 
to the county department under s. 46.215, 46.22, or 46.23 in the county where the 
order was entered or to the department, depending upon the placement of the child 
as specified by rules promulgated under subd. 5.  The assignment shall be for an 
amount sufficient to ensure payment under the order.
SECTION  2577 .  301.26 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
301.26 (4) (b)  Assessment of costs under par. (a) shall be made periodically on 
the basis of the per person per day cost estimate specified in par. (d) 2., 3., and 4.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1489 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2577
Except as provided in pars. (bm), (c), and (cm), liability shall apply to county 
departments under s. 46.215, 46.22, or 46.23 in the county of the court exercising 
jurisdiction under ch. 938 for each person receiving services from the department of 
corrections under s. 938.183 or 938.34 or the department of health services under s. 
46.057 or 51.35 (3).  Except as provided in pars. (bm), (c), and (cm), in multicounty 
court jurisdictions, the county of residency within the jurisdiction shall be liable for 
costs under this subsection.  Assessment of costs under par. (a) shall also be made 
according to the general placement type or level of care provided, as defined by the 
department, and prorated according to the ratio of the amount designated under s. 
48.526 (3) (c) to the total applicable estimated costs of care, services, and supplies 
provided by the department of corrections under ss. 938.183 and 938.34 and the 
department of health services under s. 46.057 or 51.35 (3).
SECTION  2578 .  301.26 (4) (cm) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
301.26 (4) (cm) 3.  The per person daily reimbursement rate for juvenile 
correctional services under this paragraph shall be equal to the per person daily 
cost assessment to counties under par. (d) 2., 3., and 4. for juvenile correctional 
services.
SECTION  2579 .  301.26 (4) (cx) of the statutes is amended to read:
301.26 (4) (cx)  If, notwithstanding ss. 16.50 (2), 16.52, 20.002 (11), and 
20.903, there is a deficit in the appropriation account under s. 20.410 (3) (hm) at the 
close of a fiscal biennium, the governor shall, to address that deficit, increase each 
of the rates specified under s. 301.26 (4) (d) 2. and 3. for care in a Type 1 juvenile 
correctional facility and for care for juveniles transferred from a correctional 
institution by $6, in addition to any increase due to actual costs, in the executive 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1490 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2579
budget bill for each fiscal biennium, until the deficit under s. 20.410 (3) (hm) is 
eliminated.
SECTION  2580 .  301.26 (4) (d) 2. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2581 .  301.26 (4) (d) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
301.26 (4) (d) 3.  Beginning on July 1, 2024 2025, and ending on June 30, 2025 
2027, the per person daily cost assessment to counties shall be, for care in a Type 1 
juvenile correctional facility, as defined in s. 938.02 (19), $1,268 and, for care for 
juveniles transferred from a juvenile correctional institution under s. 51.35 (3), 
$1,268.
SECTION  2582 .  301.50 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
301.50 (1)  In this section, Xsubstantial parental relationship Y means the 
acceptance and exercise of significant responsibility for the daily supervision, 
education, protection, and care of the child.  In evaluating whether an individual 
has had a substantial parental relationship with the child, factors that may be 
considered include, but are not limited to, whether the individual has expressed 
concern for or interest in the support, care, or well-being of the child; whether the 
individual has neglected or refused to provide care or support for the child; and 
whether, with respect to an individual who is or may be the father a parent of the 
child, the individual has expressed concern for or interest in the support, care, or 
well-being of the mother during her parent who gave birth during pregnancy.
SECTION  2583 .  301.55 of the statutes is created to read:
301.55   Office of the ombudsperson for corrections.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  
In this section:
(a)  XOfficeY means the office of the ombudsperson for corrections.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1491 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2583
(b)  XOmbudsperson Y means the ombudsperson of the office.
(2)  STAFF .  The ombudsperson may appoint, in the classified service, one 
deputy ombudsperson of the office, and employees for the office to complete the 
ombudsperson [s duties described under this section.  The ombudsperson may 
delegate to the deputy ombudsperson or other employees of the office any of the 
ombudsperson [s authority or duties except those described under subs. (5) (b) and 
(7) (b).
(3)  POWERS .  The ombudsperson may do all of the following:
(a)  Investigate, upon a complaint or upon personal initiative, any matter 
described under sub. (4).
(b)  Determine the scope and manner of investigations to be made.
(c)  Enter and inspect, at any time, premises within the control of the 
department.
(d)  Examine records and documents in the possession of the department, 
including corrections and detention data and medical data maintained by the 
department and classified as private or confidential data on individuals when 
access to the data is necessary for the ombudsperson to perform the powers 
authorized under this subsection.
(e)  Subpoena witnesses and the production of books, papers, records, and 
documents material to an investigation conducted by the office.
(f)  Attend any proceedings and deliberations relating to the granting or 
revocation of parole, extended supervision, or probation.
(4)  INVESTIGATIONS .  The ombudsperson may investigate any of the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1492 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2583
(a)  Complaints regarding state correctional institutions and abuse, unfair 
acts, and violations of rights of prisoners and juveniles.
(b)  The policies or practices of the department.
(c)  Any action by the department that may be contrary to law or rule.
(d)  Any other action by the department that has been alleged to be 
unreasonable, unfair, oppressive, or inconsistent with any policy or judgment of the 
department.
(e)  Procedures and practices that may lessen the risk that objectionable 
actions by the department may occur in the future.
(5)  COMPLAINTS .  (a)  The ombudsperson shall create a complaint form and 
provide sufficient blank copies of the form and self-sealing envelopes to state 
correctional institutions for distribution to prisoners and juveniles.  Blank copies of 
the form and self-sealing envelopes shall be placed in locations where prisoners and 
juveniles regularly visit, such as a common area or library, and shall be provided 
upon request to a prisoner or juvenile.  The department shall also make the form 
available on its website.
(b)  An operator of a state correctional institution shall immediately forward a 
complaint form described under par. (a) that has been completed by a prisoner or 
juvenile to the office.  No individual other than an authorized employee of the office 
may open an envelope that contains a complaint form.
(c)  The ombudsperson shall review each complaint form received under par. 
(b) and determine whether to make a recommendation regarding the complaint 
directly to the state correctional institution where the prisoner or juvenile is 
housed, the governor, the legislature, or other party, or make no recommendation.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1493 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2583
(d)  No operator of a state correctional institution may open and preview or 
screen mail addressed from the office to a prisoner or juvenile residing at the state 
correctional institution unless the operator has reason to believe that the mail 
contains contraband or is not a document from the office.  If the operator has reason 
to believe that the mail contains contraband or is not a document from the office, 
the operator may open and inspect the mail in the presence of the prisoner or 
juvenile to whom it was addressed, but may inspect the document only to the extent 
necessary to determine whether it contains contraband or is not a document from 
the office.  The operator may read the mail only if, after inspection, the operator has 
reason to believe it not a document from the office.
(6)  DISCLOSURES .  Information in the possession of the office that relates to a 
client, complaint, or investigation of the office may be disclosed only at the 
discretion of the ombudsperson or his or her designated representative.  A 
disclosure of information under this subsection relating to a client, named witness, 
or a prisoner or juvenile who is not a client may be made only if one of the following 
applies: 
(a)  The disclosure is authorized in writing by the client, named witness, 
prisoner, or juvenile or his or her legal guardian, if applicable.
(b)  The disclosure is made pursuant to a lawful order of a court of competent 
jurisdiction.
(7)  REPORTS .  (a)  If the ombudsperson determines to make a recommendation 
under sub. (5) (c) directly to the state correctional institution where the prisoner or 
juvenile is housed, the warden or superintendent of the state correctional 
institution shall respond within 30 days.  The warden or superintendent shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1494 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2583
include in the response what actions the warden or superintendent is taking as a 
result of the recommendations of the ombudsperson and why the warden or 
superintendent is taking those actions or not taking actions.
(b)  If the ombudsperson has reason to believe that any public official or 
employee has acted in a manner warranting criminal or disciplinary proceedings, 
the ombudsperson may refer the matter to the appropriate authorities.
(c)  The ombudsperson shall, at the request of the governor at any time, report 
to the governor on any matter over which the ombudsperson has authority.
(d)  On or before December 31 of each year, the ombudsperson shall submit to 
the governor, the chief clerk of each house of the legislature for distribution to the 
legislature under s. 13.172 (2), and the secretary of corrections a report of the 
ombudsperson [s findings and recommendations for improvements to policies and 
practices at state correctional institutions and the results of the ombudsperson [s 
investigations conducted under sub. (4).
SECTION  2584 .  302.05 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.05   (title)  Wisconsin substance abuse earned release program.
SECTION  2585 .  302.05 (1) (am) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.05 (1) (am) (intro.)  The department of corrections and the department of 
health services may designate a section of a mental health institute as a 
correctional treatment facility for the treatment of substance abuse use disorder of 
inmates transferred from Wisconsin state prisons.  This section shall be 
administered by the department of corrections and shall be known as the Wisconsin 
substance abuse program.  The department of corrections and the department of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1495 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2585
health services shall ensure that the residents at the institution and the residents 
in the substance abuse use disorder program:
SECTION  2586 .  302.05 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.05 (1) (b)  The department of corrections and the department of health 
services shall, at any correctional facility the departments determine is 
appropriate, provide a substance abuse use disorder treatment program for inmates 
for the purposes of the program described in sub. (3).
SECTION  2587 .  302.05 (1) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
302.05 (1) (c) 1.  In this paragraph, Xvocational readiness training program Y 
means an educational, vocational, treatment, or other evidence-based training 
program to reduce recidivism.
2.  The department shall, at any correctional facility the department 
determines is appropriate, provide vocational readiness training programs for the 
purposes of the program described in sub. (3).
SECTION  2588 .  302.05 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.05 (2)  Transfer to a correctional treatment facility for the treatment of a 
substance abuse use disorder shall be considered a transfer under s. 302.18.
SECTION  2589 .  302.05 (3) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
302.05 (3) (a) 2.  If the inmate is serving a bifurcated sentence imposed under 
s. 973.01, the sentencing court decided under par. (e) or s. 973.01 (3g) The 
department determines that the inmate is eligible to participate in the earned 
release program described in this subsection.  In making its determination, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1496 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2589
department shall consider a decision of the sentencing court under s. 302.05 (3) (e), 
2023 stats., or s. 973.01 (3g), 2023 stats.
SECTION  2590 .  302.05 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.05 (3) (b)  Except as provided in par. (d), if the department determines 
that an eligible inmate serving a sentence other than one imposed under s. 973.01 
has successfully completed a substance use disorder treatment program described 
in sub. (1) (b), a vocational readiness training program described in sub. (1) (c), or 
the mother-young child care program under s. 301.049, the parole commission shall 
parole the inmate for that sentence under s. 304.06, regardless of the time the 
inmate has served.  If the parole commission grants parole under this paragraph for 
the completion of a substance use disorder treatment program, it shall require the 
parolee to participate in an intensive supervision program for drug abusers as a 
condition of parole.
SECTION  2591 .  302.05 (3) (c) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
302.05 (3) (c) 1.  Except as provided in par. (d), if the department determines 
that an eligible inmate serving the term of confinement in prison portion of a 
bifurcated sentence imposed under s. 973.01 has successfully completed a 
substance use disorder treatment program described in sub. (1) (b), a vocational 
readiness training program described in sub. (1) (c), or the mother-young child care 
program under s. 301.049, the department shall inform the court that sentenced 
the inmate.
SECTION  2592 .  302.05 (3) (c) 2. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.05 (3) (c) 2. (intro.)  Upon being informed by the department under subd. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1497 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2592
1. that an inmate whom the court sentenced under s. 973.01 has successfully 
completed a substance use disorder treatment program described in sub. (1) (b), a 
vocational readiness training program described in sub. (1) (c), or the mother-young 
child care program under s. 301.049, the court shall modify the inmate [s bifurcated 
sentence as follows:
SECTION  2593 .  302.05 (3) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.05 (3) (d)  The department may place intensive sanctions program 
participants in a treatment program described in sub. (1) (b), but pars. (b) and (c) do 
not apply to those participants.
SECTION  2594 .  302.05 (3) (e) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2595 .  302.11 (7) (am) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.11 (7) (am)  The reviewing authority may return a parolee released under 
sub. (1) or (1g) (b) or s. 304.02 or 304.06 (1) to prison for a period up to the 
remainder of the sentence for a violation of the conditions of parole.  The remainder 
of the sentence is the entire sentence, less time served in custody prior to parole and 
less any earned compliance credit under s. 973.156.  The revocation order shall 
provide the parolee with credit in accordance with ss. 304.072 and 973.155.
SECTION  2596 .  302.113 (9) (ag) of the statutes is renumbered 302.113 (9) (ag) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
302.113 (9) (ag) (intro.)  In this subsection Xreviewing:
1.  XReviewing authority Y means the division of hearings and appeals in the 
department of administration, upon proper notice and hearing, or the department 
of corrections, if the person on extended supervision waives a hearing.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1498 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2597
SECTION  2597 .  302.113 (9) (am) of the statutes is renumbered 302.113 (9) 
(am) 1. and amended to read:
302.113 (9) (am) 1.  If a person released to extended supervision under this 
section violates a condition of extended supervision, the reviewing authority may 
revoke the extended supervision of the person.  If the extended supervision of the 
person is revoked, the reviewing authority shall order the person to be returned to 
prison for any specified period of time that does not exceed the time remaining on 
the bifurcated sentence.  The time
(ag) 2.  XTime remaining on the bifurcated sentence is Y means the total length 
of the bifurcated sentence, less time served by the person in confinement under the 
sentence before release to extended supervision under sub. (2), less any earned 
compliance credit under s. 973.156, and less all time served in confinement for 
previous revocations of extended supervision under the sentence.
(am) 2.  The order returning a person to prison under this paragraph shall 
provide the person whose extended supervision was revoked with credit in 
accordance with ss. 304.072 and 973.155.
SECTION  2598 .  302.113 (9) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.113 (9) (b)  A person who is returned to prison after revocation of extended 
supervision shall be incarcerated for the entire period of time specified by the order 
under par. (am) 1.  The period of time specified under par. (am) 1. may be extended 
in accordance with sub. (3).  If a person is returned to prison under par. (am) 1. for 
a period of time that is less than the time remaining on the bifurcated sentence, the 
person shall be released to extended supervision after he or she has served the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1499 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2598
period of time specified by the order under par. (am) 1. and any periods of extension 
imposed in accordance with sub. (3).
SECTION  2599 .  302.113 (9) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.113 (9) (c)  A person who is subsequently released to extended supervision 
after service of the period of time specified by the order under par. (am) 1. is subject 
to all conditions and rules under sub. (7) and, if applicable, sub. (7m) until the 
expiration of the time remaining extended supervision portion of on the bifurcated 
sentence.  The remaining extended supervision portion of the bifurcated sentence is 
the total length of the bifurcated sentence, less the time served by the person in 
confinement under the bifurcated sentence before release to extended supervision 
under sub. (2) and less all time served in confinement for previous revocations of 
extended supervision under the bifurcated sentence.
SECTION  2600 .  302.114 (9) (ag) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.114 (9) (ag)  In this subsection Xreviewing authority Y has the meaning 
given in s. 302.113 (9) (ag) 1.
SECTION  2601 .  302.27 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
302.27 (1)  The department may contract with a local unit of government, as 
defined in s. 16.957 (1) (k), for temporary housing or detention in county jails, 
county houses of correction, or tribal jails for persons placed on probation or 
sentenced to imprisonment in state prisons or to the intensive sanctions program.  
The rate under any such contract may not exceed $60 $80 per person per day.  
Nothing in this subsection limits the authority of the department to place persons 
in jails under s. 301.048 (3) (a) 1.
SECTION  2602 .  302.31 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1500 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2602
302.31 (7)  The temporary placement of persons in the custody of the 
department, other than persons under 17 years of age minors, and persons who 
have attained the age of 17 years but have not attained adults under the age of 25 
years who are under the supervision of the department under s. 938.355 (4) and 
who have been taken into custody pending revocation of community supervision or 
aftercare supervision under s. 938.357 (5) (e).
SECTION  2603 .  302.43 of the statutes is amended to read:
302.43   Good time.   Every inmate of a county jail is eligible to earn good time 
in the amount of one-fourth of his or her term for good behavior if sentenced to at 
least 4 days, but fractions of a day shall be ignored.  An inmate shall be given credit 
for time served prior to sentencing under s. 973.155, including good time under s. 
973.155 (4).  An inmate who violates any law or any regulation of the jail, or neglects 
or refuses to perform any duty lawfully required of him or her, may be deprived by 
the sheriff of good time under this section, except that the sheriff shall not deprive 
the inmate of more than 2 days good time for any one offense without the approval 
of the court.  An inmate who files an action or special proceeding, including a 
petition for a common law writ of certiorari, to which s. 807.15 applies shall be 
deprived of the number of days of good time specified in the court order prepared 
under s. 807.15 (3).  This section does not apply to a person who is confined in the 
county jail in connection with his or her participation in a substance abuse 
treatment program that meets the requirements of s. 165.95 (3), as determined by 
the department of justice under s. 165.95 (9) and (10).
SECTION  2604 .  304.072 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
304.072 (4)  The sentence of a revoked parolee or person on extended 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1501 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2604
supervision resumes running on the day he or she is received at a correctional 
institution subject to sentence credit for the period of custody in a jail, correctional 
institution or any other detention facility pending revocation according to the terms 
of s. 973.155 and subject to earned compliance credit under s. 973.156.
SECTION  2605 .  321.37 of the statutes is amended to read:
321.37   No discrimination.   No person, otherwise qualified, may be denied 
membership in the national guard or state defense force because of sex, color, race, 
creed, or sexual orientation, gender expression, as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), or 
gender identity, as defined in s. 111.32 (7k), and no member of the national guard or 
state defense force may be segregated within the national guard or state defense 
force on the basis of sex, color, race, creed, or sexual orientation, gender expression, 
as defined in s. 111.32 (7j), or gender identity, as defined in s. 111.32 (7k).  Nothing 
in this section prohibits separate facilities for persons of different sexes with regard 
to dormitory accommodations, toilets, showers, saunas, and dressing rooms, except 
that no person may be denied equal access to facilities most consistent with the 
person[s gender identity.
SECTION  2606 .  321.40 (1) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 321.40 (1) (ar).
SECTION  2607 .  321.40 (1) (d) of the statutes is renumbered 321.40 (1) (am) 
and amended to read:
321.40 (1) (am)  XTuition Educational grant Y means any tuition cost payment 
made by the department under sub. (3).
SECTION  2608 .  321.40 (2) (intro.), (e) and (f) of the statutes are amended to 
read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1502 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2608
321.40 (2)  ELIGIBLE  GUARD  MEMBER .  (intro.)  Eligibility for  a tuition an 
educational grant under this section is limited to a guard member who is not:
(e)  Failing to achieve satisfactory academic progress in a qualifying school 
when the tuition educational grant is applied for.
(f)  Failing to be an actively drilling guard member when the tuition 
educational grant is applied for.
SECTION  2609 .  321.40 (3) (title), (a), (b) (intro.), (c) and (d) of the statutes are 
amended to read:
321.40 (3) (title)  T UITION  EDUCATIONAL  GRANTS .  (a)  Any eligible guard 
member enrolled in a full-time or part-time course in a qualifying school may apply 
for  a tuition an educational grant equal to 100 percent of the actual tuition charged 
by the school or 100 percent of the maximum resident undergraduate tuition 
charged by the University of Wisconsin-Madison for a comparable number of 
credits, whichever amount is less.  In calculating the maximum resident 
undergraduate tuition charged by the University of Wisconsin-Madison for 
purposes of this paragraph, the department shall include in the calculation all 
additional tuition established or approved by the Board of Regents of the University 
of Wisconsin System under s. 36.27 (1) (a) for undergraduate students at the 
University of Wisconsin-Madison and for students enrolled in a particular 
undergraduate academic program at the University of Wisconsin-Madison if the 
eligible guard member is enrolled in the same or equivalent program.
(b) (intro.)  Application for tuition educational grants shall:
(c)  Except as provided under par. (d), upon determination that the applicant is 
eligible to receive the payment, the department shall make payment of the tuition 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1503 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2609
educational grant, on behalf of the applicant, to the qualifying school in which the 
applicant is enrolled in the amount determined under par. (a).  Notwithstanding 
par. (b) 2., the department shall rely on a qualifying school [s certification in 
determining that an applicant is eligible under sub. (2) (e) to receive the payment 
and the department shall make the payment not later than 30 days after the 
department receives the certification.
(d)  Tuition Educational grants under this section shall be paid out of the 
appropriation under s. 20.465 (2) (a).
SECTION  2610 .  321.40 (3) (e) and (f) of the statutes are created to read:
321.40 (3) (e)  In calculating the amount of tuition charged under par. (a), all of 
the following apply:
1.  For a University of Wisconsin System institution, tuition includes academic 
fees, as defined in s. 36.27 (3n) (a) 1g., for a resident student or nonresident tuition, 
as defined in s. 36.27 (3p) (a) 1m., for a nonresident student, as well as segregated 
fees under s. 36.27 (6).
2.  For a technical college, tuition includes program fees under s. 38.24 (1m) 
and incidental fees under s. 38.14 (9).
(f) 1.  Except as provided in subd. 2., an educational grant under this section 
shall be paid in full and no other award of financial aid to an eligible guard member 
who receives an educational grant under this section may be reduced because of the 
educational grant.
2.  This paragraph does not apply to the extent it would result in an overaward 
of financial assistance in violation of federal law or regulation or would violate the 
terms of a donation agreement for a privately funded grant or scholarship.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1504 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2611
SECTION  2611 .  321.40 (4) (a) (intro.), 2., 3. and 4. and (b) of the statutes are 
amended to read:
321.40 (4) (a) (intro.)  The department shall require a guard member who has 
received  a tuition an educational grant under this section to repay the amount of 
the tuition educational grant to the department if any of the following applies:
2.  The guard member is not a member in good standing in the national guard 
at the end of the term for which the tuition educational grant is paid.
3.  The guard member has failed to be an actively drilling guard member at the 
end of the term for which the tuition educational grant is paid.
4.  The guard member has failed to achieve satisfactory academic progress at 
the end of the term for which the tuition educational grant is paid.
(b) 1.  A qualifying school that receives payment of  a tuition an educational 
grant on behalf of a guard member under sub. (3) (c) shall notify the department if 
the guard member has failed to achieve satisfactory academic progress at the end of 
the term for which the tuition educational grant is paid.
2.  If a guard member is required to repay  a tuition an educational grant for 
any of the reasons specified in par. (a), the department may require the qualifying 
school that received the tuition educational grant on behalf of the guard member to 
recover from the guard member the amount of the tuition educational grant and 
remit it to the department.  A qualifying school may take any reasonable action to 
secure repayment of the amount of  a tuition an educational grant under this 
subdivision, including placing a hold on course registration or on the awarding of a 
degree or certificate, undertaking collection efforts, or initiating legal action.
SECTION  2612 .  321.40 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1505 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2612
321.40 (5)  LIMITATIONS .  (a)  No guard member is eligible for  a tuition an 
educational grant under this section for more than 120 credits of part-time study or 
8 full semesters of full-time study or the equivalent thereof.
(b)  If the U.S. congress establishes an active draft after July 1, 1977, no new 
tuition educational grants may be authorized under this section.  The department 
shall determine if an active draft has been established.  Any termination of the 
tuition educational grant program under this paragraph shall allow persons 
receiving grants prior to the establishment of an active draft to receive full benefits 
subject to sub. (3) (d) and par. (a).
(c)  No guard member may receive  a tuition an educational grant under sub. 
(3) for any semester in which he or she received a payment under s. 45.20 (2).
(d)  No guard member may receive  a tuition an educational grant under this 
section unless he or she is a member in good standing in the national guard at the 
time of application for the tuition educational grant.
SECTION  2613 .  321.40 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
321.40 (6)  COORDINATION  WITH  QUALIFYING  SCHOOLS .  The department shall 
consult and coordinate with qualifying schools in establishing a process for 
distributing tuition educational grants that accomplishes all of the following:
(a)  Maximizes administrative efficiency for qualifying schools in applying 
tuition educational grants to student accounts.
(b)  Provides tuition educational grants to students in an expeditious manner 
that minimizes students [ need to incur debt while waiting for the grants to fund in 
their student accounts.
SECTION  2614 .  323.19 (3) and (4) of the statutes are repealed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1506 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2615
SECTION  2615 .  323.31 of the statutes is amended to read:
323.31   State disaster assistance.   From the appropriations under s. 20.465 
(3) (b) and (s), the adjutant general shall make payments to retail electric 
cooperatives, as defined in s. 16.957 (1) (t), to local governmental units, as defined 
in s. 19.42 (7u), and to federally recognized American Indian tribes and bands in 
this state for the damages and costs incurred as the result of a disaster if federal 
disaster assistance is not available for that disaster because the governor [s request 
that the president declare the disaster a major disaster under 42 USC 5170 has 
been denied or because the disaster, as determined by the department of military 
affairs, does not meet the statewide or countywide per capita impact indicator 
under the public assistance program that is issued by the federal emergency 
management agency.  To be eligible for a payment under this section, the retail 
electric cooperative, local governmental unit, or tribe or band shall pay 30 percent of 
the amount of the damages and costs resulting from the disaster.  Costs eligible for 
payment under this section shall include the categories of work designated by the 
federal emergency management agency [s public assistance program as Category D, 
regarding water control facilities; Category E, regarding public buildings and 
contents; Category F, regarding public utilities; and Category G, regarding parks, 
recreation, and other facilities.  The department of military affairs shall 
promulgate rules establishing the application process and the criteria for 
determining eligibility for payments under this section.
SECTION  2616 .  341.14 (1a) of the statutes is amended to read:
341.14 (1a)  If any resident of this state, who is registering or has registered 
an automobile, or a motor truck, dual purpose motor home or dual purpose farm 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1507 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2616
truck which has a gross weight of not more than 8,000 pounds, a farm truck which 
has a gross weight of not more than 12,000 pounds or a motor home, submits a 
statement once every 4 years, as determined by the department, from a physician 
licensed to practice medicine in any state, from an advanced practice registered 
nurse licensed to practice nursing in any state, from a public health nurse certified 
or licensed to practice in any state, from a physician assistant licensed or certified 
to practice in any state, from a podiatrist licensed to practice in any state, from a 
chiropractor licensed to practice chiropractic in any state, from a physical therapist 
licensed to practice in any state, or from a Christian Science practitioner residing in 
this state and listed in the Christian Science journal certifying to the department 
that the resident is a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to 
walk, the department shall procure, issue and deliver to the disabled person plates 
of a special design in lieu of plates which ordinarily would be issued for the vehicle, 
and shall renew the plates.  The plates shall be so designed as to readily apprise law 
enforcement officers of the fact that the vehicle is owned by a nonveteran disabled 
person and is entitled to the parking privileges specified in s. 346.50 (2a).  No 
charge in addition to the registration fee shall be made for the issuance or renewal 
of such plates.
SECTION  2617 .  341.14 (1e) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
341.14 (1e) (a)  If any resident of this state, who is registering or has 
registered a motorcycle, submits a statement once every 4 years, as determined by 
the department, from a physician licensed to practice medicine in any state, from an 
advanced practice registered nurse licensed to practice nursing in any state, from a 
public health nurse certified or licensed to practice in any state, from a physician 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1508 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2617
assistant licensed or certified to practice in any state, from a podiatrist licensed to 
practice in any state, from a chiropractor licensed to practice chiropractic in any 
state, from a physical therapist licensed to practice in any state, from a Christian 
Science practitioner residing in this state and listed in the Christian Science 
journal, or from the U.S. department of veterans affairs certifying to the 
department that the resident is a person with a disability that limits or impairs the 
ability to walk, the department shall procure, issue and deliver to the disabled 
person a plate of a special design in lieu of the plate which ordinarily would be 
issued for the motorcycle, and shall renew the plate.  The statement shall state 
whether the disability is permanent or temporary and, if temporary, the opinion of 
the physician, advanced practice registered nurse, public health nurse, physician 
assistant, podiatrist, chiropractor, physical therapist, practitioner, or U.S. 
department of veterans affairs as to the duration of the disability.  The plate shall 
be so designed as to readily apprise law enforcement officers of the fact that the 
motorcycle is owned by a disabled person and is entitled to the parking privileges 
specified in s. 346.50 (2a).  No charge in addition to the registration fee may be 
made for the issuance or renewal of the plate.
SECTION  2618 .  341.14 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
341.14 (1m)   If any licensed driver submits to the department a statement 
once every 4 years, as determined by the department, from a physician licensed to 
practice medicine in any state, from a public health nurse certified or licensed to 
practice in any state, from an advanced practice registered nurse licensed to 
practice nursing in any state, from a physician assistant licensed or certified to 
practice in any state, from a podiatrist licensed to practice in any state, from a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1509 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2618
chiropractor licensed to practice chiropractic in any state, from a physical therapist 
licensed to practice in any state, or from a Christian Science practitioner residing in 
this state and listed in the Christian Science journal certifying that another person 
who is regularly dependent on the licensed driver for transportation is a person 
with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk, the department shall 
issue and deliver to the licensed driver plates of a special design in lieu of the plates 
which ordinarily would be issued for the automobile or motor truck, dual purpose 
motor home or dual purpose farm truck having a gross weight of not more than 
8,000 pounds, farm truck having a gross weight of not more than 12,000 pounds or 
motor home, and shall renew the plates.  The plates shall be so designed as to 
readily apprise law enforcement officers of the fact that the vehicle is operated by a 
licensed driver on whom a disabled person is regularly dependent and is entitled to 
the parking privileges specified in s. 346.50 (2a).  No charge in addition to the 
registration fee may be made for the issuance or renewal of the plates.  The plates 
shall conform to the plates required in sub. (1a).
SECTION  2619 .  341.14 (1q) of the statutes is amended to read:
341.14 (1q)  If any employer who provides an automobile, or a motor truck, 
dual purpose motor home or dual purpose farm truck which has a gross weight of 
not more than 8,000 pounds, a farm truck which has a gross weight of not more 
than 12,000 pounds or a motor home, for an employee [s use submits to the 
department a statement once every 4 years, as determined by the department, from 
a physician licensed to practice medicine in any state, from an advanced practice 
registered nurse licensed to practice nursing in any state, from a public health 
nurse certified or licensed to practice in any state, from a physician assistant 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1510 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2619
licensed or certified to practice in any state, from a podiatrist licensed to practice in 
any state, from a physical therapist licensed to practice in any state, from a 
chiropractor licensed to practice chiropractic in any state, or from a Christian 
Science practitioner residing in this state and listed in the Christian Science 
journal certifying that the employee is a person with a disability that limits or 
impairs the ability to walk, the department shall issue and deliver to such employer 
plates of a special design in lieu of the plates which ordinarily would be issued for 
the vehicle, and shall renew the plates.  The plates shall be so designed as to readily 
apprise law enforcement officers of the fact that the vehicle is operated by a 
disabled person and is entitled to the parking privileges specified in s. 346.50 (2a).  
No charge in addition to the registration fee may be made for the issuance or 
renewal of the plates.  The plates shall conform to the plates required in sub. (1a).
SECTION  2620 .  341.14 (6r) (b) 23. of the statutes is created to read:
341.14 (6r) (b) 23.  In addition to the fee under subd. 2., a voluntary payment 
of $25 shall be collected in connection with the issuance or renewal of a plate issued 
on an annual basis for the special group specified under par. (f) 70.  In addition to 
the fee under subd. 2., a voluntary payment of $50 shall be collected in connection 
with the issuance or renewal of a plate issued on a biennial basis for the special 
group specified under par. (f) 70. if the plate is issued or renewed during the first 
year of the biennial registration period or $25 for the issuance or renewal if the 
plate is issued or renewed during the 2nd year of the biennial registration period.  
No plate may be issued for the special group specified under par. (f) 70. unless the 
voluntary payment under this subdivision is collected.  All moneys received under 
this subdivision, in excess of $23,700 or the actual initial costs of production for the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1511 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2620
special group plates under par. (f) 70., whichever is less, shall be deposited in the 
transportation fund.
SECTION  2621 .  341.14 (6r) (b) 24. of the statutes is created to read:
341.14 (6r) (b) 24.  In addition to the fee under subd. 2., a voluntary payment 
of $25 shall be collected in connection with the issuance or renewal of a plate issued 
on an annual basis for the special group specified under par. (f) 71.  In addition to 
the fee under subd. 2., a voluntary payment of $50 shall be collected in connection 
with the issuance or renewal of a plate issued on a biennial basis for the special 
group specified under par. (f) 71. if the plate is issued or renewed during the first 
year of the biennial registration period or $25 for the issuance or renewal if the 
plate is issued or renewed during the 2nd year of the biennial registration period.  
No plate may be issued for the special group specified under par. (f) 71. unless the 
voluntary payment under this subdivision is collected.  All moneys received under 
this subdivision, in excess of $23,700 or the actual initial costs of production for the 
special group plates under par. (f) 71., whichever is less, shall be deposited in the 
transportation fund.
SECTION  2622 .  341.14 (6r) (cb) of the statutes is created to read:
341.14 (6r) (cb)  Notwithstanding par. (c), special group plates issued under 
par. (f) 70. shall have a black background and white lettering displaying the word 
XWisconsin Y and identifying letters or numbers or both, not exceeding 7 positions 
and not less than one position.
SECTION  2623 .  341.14 (6r) (cr) of the statutes is created to read:
341.14 (6r) (cr)  Notwithstanding par. (c), special group plates issued under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1512 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2623
par. (f) 71. shall have a yellow background and black lettering displaying the words 
XAmerica [s Dairyland Y and XWisconsin Y and identifying letters or numbers or both, 
not exceeding 7 positions and not less than one position.
SECTION  2624 .  341.14 (6r) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
341.14 (6r) (e)  The department shall specify one combination of colors for 
special group plates for groups or organizations which are not military in nature 
and not special group plates under par. (f) 35. to 47., 50., and, 59., 70., and 71., for 
each professional football team under par. (f) 55., for each professional baseball 
team under par. (f) 60., and for each professional basketball team under par. (f) 65.  
The department shall specify one combination of colors for special group plates 
under par. (f) 35. to 47.  Subject to par. (c), the department shall specify the word or 
words comprising the special group name and the symbol to be displayed upon 
special group plates for a group or organization which is not military in nature after 
consultation with the chief executive officer in this state of the group or 
organization.  The department shall require that the word or words and symbol for 
a university specified under par. (f) 35. to 47. be a registration decal or tag and 
affixed to the special group plate and be of the colors for a university specified 
under par. (f) 35. to 47. that the president of the University of Wisconsin System 
specifies.  The department shall consult the chief trademark officer of Harley-
Davidson Michigan, LLC before specifying the colors for the special group plate 
under par. (f) 61r.
SECTION  2625 .  341.14 (6r) (f) 70. of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1513 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2625
341.14 (6r) (f) 70.  Persons interested in obtaining blackout registration 
plates.
SECTION  2626 .  341.14 (6r) (f) 71. of the statutes is created to read:
341.14 (6r) (f) 71.  Persons interested in obtaining retro registration plates.
SECTION  2627 .  341.14 (6r) (fm) 7. of the statutes is amended to read:
341.14 (6r) (fm) 7.  After October 1, 1998, additional authorized special groups 
may only be special groups designated by the department under this paragraph.  
The authorized special groups enumerated in par. (f) shall be limited solely to those 
special groups specified under par. (f) on October 1, 1998.  This subdivision does not 
apply to the special groups specified under par. (f) 3m., 6m., 9g., 9m., 12g., 12m., 
15m., 15n., 15o., 15p., 15q., 19m., 33m., 48m., 49d., 49h., 49s., 54., 55., 55m., 56., 
57., 58., 59., 60., 61., 61m., 61r., 62., 63., 64., 65., 65m., 66., 67., 68., and 69., 70., and 
71.
SECTION  2628 .  342.14 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
342.14 (1)  For filing an application for the first certificate of title, $157 $277, 
by the owner of the vehicle.
SECTION  2629 .  342.14 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
342.14 (3)  For a certificate of title after a transfer, $157 $277, by the owner of 
the vehicle, except that this fee shall be waived with respect to an application for 
transfer of a decedent [s interest in a vehicle to his or her surviving domestic partner 
under ch. 770 or an immediate family member.
SECTION  2630 .  343.03 (3m) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.03 (3m)   N ONCITIZEN  LIMITED -TERM  LICENSE .  If the issuance of any 
license described under sub. (3) requires the license applicant to present any 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1514 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2630
documentary proof specified in s. 343.14 (2) (es) 2. to 7. 1m. b. to g. or (im) 2m. b., 
the license shall display on the front side of the license, in addition to any legend or 
label described in sub. (3), a legend identifying the license as limited term or, if the 
license authorizes the operation of a commercial motor vehicle, as a nondomiciled 
license.  This noncitizen limited-term license may not be renewed except as 
provided in s. 343.165 (4) (c).  A nondomiciled license may not be issued to a 
resident of Canada or Mexico.
SECTION  2631 .  343.03 (3r) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.03 (3r)  REAL ID N ONCOMPLIANT  LICENSE .  If any license described under 
sub. (3) is issued based upon the exception specified in s. 343.165 (7), the license 
shall, in addition to any legend or label described in sub. (3), be marked in a manner 
consistent with requirements under applicable federal law and regulations to 
indicate that the license is issued in accordance with P.L. 109-13, section 202 (d) 
(11), and is not intended to be accepted by any federal agency for federal 
identification or any other official purpose.  Section 344.62 applies to a person 
operating a motor vehicle under the authorization of a license issued under this 
subsection.
SECTION  2632 .  343.14 (2) (br) of the statutes is renumbered 343.14 (2) (br) 1. 
and amended to read:
343.14 (2) (br) 1.  If Except as provided in subd. 2., if the applicant does not 
have a social security number, a statement made or subscribed under oath or 
affirmation that the applicant does not have a social security number and is not 
eligible for a social security number.  The statement shall provide the basis or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1515 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2632
reason that the applicant is not eligible for a social security number, as well as any 
information requested by the department that may be needed by the department for 
purposes of verification under s. 343.165 (1) (c).  The form of the statement shall be 
prescribed by the department, with the assistance of the department of children 
and families.  A license that is issued or renewed under s. 343.17 in reliance on a 
statement submitted under this paragraph subdivision is invalid if the statement is 
false.
SECTION  2633 .  343.14 (2) (br) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
343.14 (2) (br) 2.  If the applicant does not have a social security number and 
the application is for an operator [s license that contains the marking specified in s. 
343.03 (3r) or an identification card that contains the marking specified in s. 343.50 
(3) (b), a statement made or subscribed under oath or affirmation that the applicant 
does not have a social security number.  The form of the statement shall be 
prescribed by the department, with the assistance of the department of children 
and families.  A license that is issued or renewed under s. 343.17 in reliance on a 
statement submitted under this subdivision is invalid if the statement is false.
SECTION  2634 .  343.14 (2) (es) of the statutes is renumbered 343.14 (2) (es) 
1m., and 343.14 (2) (es) 1m. (intro.), as renumbered, is amended to read:
343.14 (2) (es) 1m. (intro.)  Subject to sub. (2g) (a) 2. d. and s. 343.125 (2) (a) 
and (b), and except as provided in subd. 2m., valid documentary proof that the 
individual is a citizen or national of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted 
for permanent or temporary residence in the United States or has any of the 
following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1516 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2635
SECTION  2635 .  343.14 (2) (es) 2m. of the statutes is created to read:
343.14 (2) (es) 2m.  Valid documentary proof under subd. 1m. is not required if 
the application is for an operator [s license that contains the marking specified in s. 
343.03 (3r) or an identification card that contains the marking specified in s. 343.50 
(3) (b).
SECTION  2636 .  343.14 (2j) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.14 (2j)  Except as otherwise required to administer and enforce this 
chapter, the department of transportation may not disclose a social security 
number obtained from an applicant for a license under sub. (2) (bm) to any person 
except to the department of children and families for the sole purpose of 
administering s. 49.22, to the department of workforce development for the sole 
purpose of enforcing or administering s. 108.22, to the department of revenue for 
the purposes of administering state taxes and collecting debt, to the driver licensing 
agency of another jurisdiction, or to the elections commission for the sole purpose of 
allowing the chief election officer to comply with the terms of the agreement under 
s. 6.36 (1) (ae).  The department of transportation may not disclose to any person 
the fact that an applicant has provided verification under s. 343.165 (7) (c) 2. that 
the applicant does not have a social security number, except to the elections 
commission for purposes of administering the agreement described in s. 5.056.
SECTION  2637 .  343.14 (2p) of the statutes is created to read:
343.14 (2p) (a)  The forms for application for a license or identification card or 
for renewal thereof shall inform the applicant of the department [s duty to make 
available to the elections commission the information described in s. 6.256 (2) for 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1517 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2637
the purposes specified in s. 6.256 (1) and (3) and shall provide the applicant an 
opportunity to elect not to have this information made available for these purposes.
(b)  If the applicant elects not to have the information described in s. 6.256 (2) 
made available for the purposes specified in s. 6.256 (1) and (3), the department 
may not make this information available for these purposes.  This paragraph does 
not preclude the department from making available to the elections commission 
information for the purposes specified in s. 6.34 (2m) or for any purpose other than 
those specified in s. 6.256 (1) and (3).
SECTION  2638 .  343.16 (5) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.16 (5) (a)  The secretary may require any applicant for a license or any 
licensed operator to submit to a special examination by such persons or agencies as 
the secretary may direct to determine incompetency, physical or mental disability, 
disease, or any other condition that might prevent such applicant or licensed person 
from exercising reasonable and ordinary control over a motor vehicle.  If the 
department requires the applicant to submit to an examination, the applicant shall 
pay for the examination.  If the department receives an application for a renewal or 
duplicate license after voluntary surrender under s. 343.265 or receives a report 
from a physician, physician assistant, advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber certified under s. 441.16 (2) licensed under s. 441.09, or optometrist 
under s. 146.82 (3), or if the department has a report of 2 or more arrests within a 
one-year period for any combination of violations of s. 346.63 (1) or (5) or a local 
ordinance in conformity with s. 346.63 (1) or (5) or a law of a federally recognized 
American Indian tribe or band in this state in conformity with s. 346.63 (1) or (5), or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1518 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2638
s. 346.63 (1m), 1985 stats., or s. 346.63 (2) or (6) or 940.25, or s. 940.09 where the 
offense involved the use of a vehicle, the department shall determine, by interview 
or otherwise, whether the operator should submit to an examination under this 
section.  The examination may consist of an assessment.  If the examination 
indicates that education or treatment for a disability, disease or condition 
concerning the use of alcohol, a controlled substance or a controlled substance 
analog is appropriate, the department may order a driver safety plan in accordance 
with s. 343.30 (1q).  If there is noncompliance with assessment or the driver safety 
plan, the department shall revoke the person [s operating privilege in the manner 
specified in s. 343.30 (1q) (d).
SECTION  2639 .  343.165 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.165 (1) (c)  Proof of the applicant [s social security number or, except as 
provided in sub. (7) (c) 2. and s. 343.14 (2g) (a) 4., verification that the applicant is 
not eligible for a social security number.
SECTION  2640 .  343.165 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.165 (1) (e)  Subject to ss. 343.125 (2) (a) and (b) and 343.14 (2g) (a) 2. d., 
and except as provided in sub. (7) (c) 1. and s. 343.14 (2) (es) 2m., the documentary 
proof described in s. 343.14 (2) (es) 1m.
SECTION  2641 .  343.165 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.165 (3) (b)  The department may not accept any foreign document, other 
than an official passport, to satisfy a requirement under sub. (1).  This paragraph 
does not apply to an application processed under sub. (7) (c).
SECTION  2642 .  343.165 (3) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1519 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2642
343.165 (3) (c)  For purposes of par. (a) and sub. (1) (c), if an applicant presents 
a social security number that is already registered to or associated with another 
person, the department shall direct the applicant to investigate and take 
appropriate action to resolve the discrepancy and shall not issue any operator [s 
license or identification card until the discrepancy is resolved.  The department 
shall adopt procedures for purposes of verifying that an applicant is not eligible for 
a social security number, except with respect to applications processed under sub. 
(7) (c).
SECTION  2643 .  343.165 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.165 (4) (b)  The department shall establish an effective procedure to 
confirm or verify an applicant [s information for purposes of any application 
described in par. (a).  The procedure shall include verification of the applicant [s 
social security number or, except with respect to applications processed under sub. 
(7) (c), ineligibility for a social security number.
SECTION  2644 .  343.165 (4) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.165 (4) (d)  With any license or identification card renewal following a 
license or identification card expiration established under s. 343.20 (1m) or 343.50 
(5) (bm) or (c) at other than an 8-year interval, the department may determine 
whether the applicant [s photograph is to be taken, or if the renewal is for a license 
the applicant is to be examined, or both, at the time of such renewal, so long as the 
applicant [s photograph is taken, and if the renewal is for a license the applicant is 
examined, with a license or card renewal at least once every 8 years and the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1520 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2644
applicant [s license or identification card at all times includes a photograph unless 
an exception under s. 343.14 (3m) or 343.50 (4g) applies.
SECTION  2645 .  343.165 (7) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.165 (7) (a) (intro.)  The Subject to par. (c), the department may process an 
application for, and issue or renew, an operator [s license or identification card 
without meeting the requirements under subs. (2) and (3) if all of the following 
apply:
SECTION  2646 .  343.165 (7) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
343.165 (7) (c) 1.  Notwithstanding s. 343.14 (2) (f), in processing an 
application for, and issuing or renewing, an operator [s license that contains the 
marking specified in s. 343.03 (3r) or an identification card that contains the 
marking specified in s. 343.50 (3) (b), the department may not include any question 
or require any proof or documentation as to whether the applicant is a citizen or 
national of the United States or lawfully present in the United States.
2.  For an application processed under this paragraph, if the applicant does not 
provide proof of the applicant [s social security number, the applicant shall provide 
verification, in the manner described in s. 343.14 (2) (br) 2., that the applicant does 
not have a social security number.
3.  Notwithstanding sub. (1) (a), for an application processed under this 
paragraph, an applicant may provide an individual taxpayer identification number, 
a foreign passport, or any other documentation deemed acceptable to the 
department, in lieu of the documentation required under sub. (1) (a).
4.  Notwithstanding sub. (1) (b) and (d), for an application processed under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1521 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2646
paragraph, an applicant may provide any documentation deemed acceptable to the 
department, in lieu of the documentation required under sub. (1) (b) or (d).
SECTION  2647 .  343.17 (3) (a) 16. of the statutes is created to read:
343.17 (3) (a) 16.  If the license is marked as provided in s. 343.03 (3r) and the 
license applicant did not provide a verified social security number with the license 
application, the words XNot valid for voting purposes.  Not evidence of citizenship or 
immigration status. Y
SECTION  2648 .  343.20 (1) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.20 (1) (f)  The department shall cancel an operator [s license, regardless of 
the license expiration date, if the department receives information from a local, 
state, or federal government agency that the licensee no longer satisfies the 
requirements for issuance of a license under ss. 343.14 (2) (es) 1m. and 343.165 (1) 
(e).  This paragraph does not apply to an operator [s license if the license application 
was processed under s. 343.165 (7) (c).
SECTION  2649 .  343.20 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.20 (1m)   Notwithstanding sub. (1) (a), and except as provided in s. 343.165 
(4) (c) and as otherwise provided in this subsection, a license that is issued to a 
person who is not a United States citizen or permanent resident and who provides 
documentary proof of legal status as provided under s. 343.14 (2) (es)  2., 4., 5., 6., or 
7. 1m. b., d., e., f., or g. shall expire on the date that the person [s legal presence in 
the United States is no longer authorized or on the expiration date determined 
under sub. (1), whichever date is earlier.  If the documentary proof as provided 
under s. 343.14 (2) (es) 1m. does not state the date that the person [s legal presence 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1522 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2649
in the United States is no longer authorized, sub. (1) shall apply except that, if the 
license was issued or renewed based upon the person [s presenting of any 
documentary proof specified in s. 343.14 (2) (es)  4. to 7. 1m. d. to g., the license 
shall, subject to s. 343.165 (4) (c), expire one year after the date of issuance or 
renewal.  This subsection does not apply to a license that contains the marking 
specified in s. 343.03 (3r).
SECTION  2650 .  343.20 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.20 (2) (a)  At least 30 days prior to the expiration of an operator [s license, 
the department shall provide to the licensee notice of renewal of the license either 
by mail at the licensee [s last-known address or, if desired by the licensee, by any 
electronic means offered by the department.  If the license was issued or last 
renewed based upon the person [s presenting of any documentary proof specified in 
s. 343.14 (2) (es)  4. to 7. 1m. d. to g., the notice shall inform the licensee of the 
requirement under s. 343.165 (4) (c).
SECTION  2651 .  343.21 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.21 (1) (a)  For the initial issuance or renewal of a license authorizing only 
the operation of XClass DY motor vehicles, other than a probationary license under 
s. 343.085, $24 $32.50.
SECTION  2652 .  343.301 (1g) (a) 2. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
343.301 (1g) (a) 2. a.  The person had an offense involved the use of alcohol 
concentration of 0.15 or more at the time of the offense.
SECTION  2653 .  343.50 (1) (c) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
343.50 (1) (c) 1.  The department may issue a receipt to any applicant for an 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1523 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2653
identification card, and shall issue a receipt to an applicant requesting an 
identification card under sub. (5) (a) 3., which receipt shall constitute a temporary 
identification card while the application is being processed and shall be valid for a 
period not to exceed 60 180 days.  If the application for an identification card is 
processed under the exception specified in s. 343.165 (7) or (8), the receipt shall 
include the marking specified in sub. (3) (b).
SECTION  2654 .  343.50 (3) (a) and (b) of the statutes are amended to read:
343.50 (3) (a)  The card shall be the same size as an operator [s license but 
shall be of a design which is readily distinguishable from the design of an operator [s 
license and bear upon it the words XIDENTIFICATION CARD ONLY. Y  The 
information on the card shall be the same as specified under s. 343.17 (3).  If the 
issuance of the card requires the applicant to present any documentary proof 
specified in s. 343.14 (2) (es)  4. to 7. 1m. d. to g., the card shall display, on the front 
side of the card, a legend identifying the card as temporary.  The card shall contain 
physical security features consistent with any requirement under federal law.  The 
card may serve as a record of gift under s. 157.06 (2) (t) and the holder may affix a 
sticker thereto as provided in s. 343.175 (3).  The card may also serve as a record of 
refusal under s. 157.06 (2) (u).  Except as provided in sub. (4g), the card shall 
contain the holder [s photograph and, if applicable, shall be of the design specified 
under s. 343.17 (3) (a) 12.
(b)  If an identification card is issued based upon the exception specified in s. 
343.165 (7) or (8), the card shall, in addition to any other required legend or design, 
be of the design specified under s. 343.17 (3) (a) 14. and include a marking similar 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1524 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2654
or identical to the marking described in s. 343.03 (3r) and, if applicable, the words 
specified in s. 343.17 (3) (a) 16.
SECTION  2655 .  343.50 (5) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.50 (5) (b)  Except as provided in pars. (bm), (c), and (d) and s. 343.165 (4) 
(c), an original or reinstated card shall be valid for the succeeding period of 8 years 
from the applicant [s next birthday after the date of issuance, and a renewed card 
shall be valid for the succeeding period of 8 years from the card [s last expiration 
date.
SECTION  2656 .  343.50 (5) (bm) of the statutes is created to read:
343.50 (5) (bm)  Notwithstanding par. (d), if the identification card application 
was processed under s. 343.165 (7) (c) and the applicant did not provide a verified 
social security number, an original or reinstated card shall be valid for the 
succeeding period of 2 years from the applicant [s next birthday after the date of 
issuance, and a renewed card shall be valid for the succeeding period of 2 years from 
the card [s last expiration date.
SECTION  2657 .  343.50 (5) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.50 (5) (c)  Except as provided in s. 343.165 (4) (c) and as otherwise 
provided in this paragraph, an identification card that is issued to a person who is 
not a United States citizen and who provides documentary proof of legal status as 
provided under s. 343.14 (2) (es) 1m. shall expire on the date that the person [s legal 
presence in the United States is no longer authorized or on the expiration date 
determined under par. (b), whichever date is earlier.  If the documentary proof as 
provided under s. 343.14 (2) (es) 1m. does not state the date that the person [s legal 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1525 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2657
presence in the United States is no longer authorized, then the card shall be valid 
for the period specified in par. (b) except that, if the card was issued or renewed 
based upon the person [s presenting of any documentary proof specified in s. 343.14 
(2) (es)  4. to 7. 1m. d. to g., the card shall, subject to s. 343.165 (4) (c), expire one 
year after the date of issuance or renewal.  This paragraph does not apply to an 
identification card that contains the marking specified in sub. (3) (b).
SECTION  2658 .  343.50 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.50 (6)  RENEWAL  NOTICE .  At least 30 days prior to the expiration of an 
identification card, the department shall provide to the card holder notice of 
renewal of the card either by mail at the card holder [s last-known address or, if 
desired by the card holder, by any electronic means offered by the department.  If 
the card was issued or last renewed based upon the person [s presenting of any 
documentary proof specified in s. 343.14 (2) (es)  4. to 7. 1m. d. to g., the notice shall 
inform the card holder of the requirement under s. 343.165 (4) (c).  The department 
shall include with the notice information, as developed by all organ procurement 
organizations in cooperation with the department, that promotes anatomical 
donations and which relates to the anatomical donation opportunity available 
under s. 343.175.  The department may renew an identification card by mail or by 
any electronic means available to the department, but the department may not 
make consecutive renewals by mail or electronic means.
SECTION  2659 .  343.50 (8) (c) 6. of the statutes is created to read:
343.50 (8) (c) 6.  Notwithstanding any other provision of par. (b) and this 
paragraph, the department may not disclose to any person the fact that an 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1526 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2659
applicant has provided verification under s. 343.165 (7) (c) 2. that the applicant 
does not have a social security number, except to the elections commission for 
purposes of administering the agreement described in s. 5.056.
SECTION  2660 .  343.50 (10) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.50 (10) (c)  Whenever the department receives information from a local, 
state, or federal government agency that the card holder no longer satisfies the 
requirements for issuance of a card under ss. 343.14 (2) (es) 1m. and 343.165 (1) (e).  
A card cancelled under this paragraph may not be reinstated under sub. (5) until 
these requirements are again satisfied.  This paragraph does not apply to a card if 
the card application was processed under s. 343.165 (7) (c).
SECTION  2661 .  343.51 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
343.51 (1)  Any person who qualifies for registration plates of a special design 
under s. 341.14 (1), (1a), (1m), or (1q) or any other person with a disability that 
limits or impairs the ability to walk may request from the department a special 
identification card that will entitle any motor vehicle parked by, or under the 
direction of, the person, or a motor vehicle operated by or on behalf of the 
organization when used to transport such a person, to parking privileges under s. 
346.50 (2), (2a), and (3).  The department shall issue the card at a fee to be 
determined by the department, upon submission by the applicant, if the applicant 
is an individual rather than an organization, of a statement from a physician 
licensed to practice medicine in any state, from an advanced practice registered 
nurse licensed to practice nursing in any state, from a public health nurse certified 
or licensed to practice in any state, from a physician assistant licensed or certified 
to practice in any state, from a podiatrist licensed to practice in any state, from a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1527 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2661
chiropractor licensed to practice chiropractic in any state, from a physical therapist 
licensed to practice in any state, or from a Christian Science practitioner residing in 
this state and listed in the Christian Science journal that the person is a person 
with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk.  The statement shall 
state whether the disability is permanent or temporary and, if temporary, the 
opinion of the physician, advanced practice registered nurse, public health nurse, 
physician assistant, podiatrist, chiropractor, physical therapist, or practitioner as to 
the duration of the disability.  The department shall issue the card upon application 
by an organization on a form prescribed by the department if the department 
believes that the organization meets the requirements under this subsection.
SECTION  2662 .  343.62 (4) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
343.62 (4) (a) 4.  The applicant submits with the application a statement 
completed within the immediately preceding 24 months, except as provided by rule, 
by a physician licensed to practice medicine in any state, from an advanced practice 
registered nurse licensed to practice nursing in any state, from a physician 
assistant licensed or certified to practice in any state, from a podiatrist licensed to 
practice in any state, from a chiropractor licensed to practice chiropractic in any 
state, from a physical therapist licensed to practice in any state, or from a Christian 
Science practitioner residing in this state, and listed in the Christian Science 
journal certifying that, in the medical care provider [s judgment, the applicant is 
physically fit to teach driving.
SECTION  2663 .  345.05 (1) (ag) of the statutes is created to read:
345.05 (1) (ag)  XAuthority Y means a transit authority created under s. 
66.1039.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1528 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2664
SECTION  2664 .  345.05 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
345.05 (2)  A person suffering any damage proximately resulting from the 
negligent operation of a motor vehicle owned and operated by a municipality or 
authority, which damage was occasioned by the operation of the motor vehicle in the 
course of its business, may file a claim for damages against the municipality or 
authority concerned and the governing body of the municipality or the board of 
directors of the authority may allow, compromise, settle and pay the claim.  In this 
subsection, a motor vehicle is deemed owned and operated by a municipality or 
authority if the vehicle is either being rented or leased, or is being purchased under 
a contract whereby the municipality or authority will acquire title.
SECTION  2665 .  349.02 (2) (b) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
349.02 (2) (b) 4.  Local ordinances enacted under s. 59.54 (25) (a) or (25m) or 
66.0107 (1) (bm).
SECTION  2666 .  350.12 (4) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
350.12 (4) (a)  Enforcement, administration and related costs.   (intro.)  The 
moneys appropriated from s. 20.370 (3) (ak) and (aq), (5) (es) and (9) (mu) and (mw) 
may be used for the following:
SECTION  2667 .  350.12 (4) (a) 3m. of the statutes is amended to read:
350.12 (4) (a) 3m.  The cost of state law enforcement efforts as appropriated 
under s. 20.370 (3) (ak) and (aq); and
SECTION  2668 .  350.12 (4) (am) of the statutes is amended to read:
350.12 (4) (am)  Enforcement aids to department.   Of the amounts 
appropriated under s. 20.370 (3) (ak) and (aq), the department shall allocate 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1529 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2668
$26,000 in each fiscal year to be used exclusively for the purchase of snowmobiles or 
trailers to carry snowmobiles, or both, to be used in state law enforcement efforts.
SECTION  2669 .  440.01 (1) (dL) of the statutes is created to read:
440.01 (1) (dL)  XRenewal cycle Y means the period of time between 2 successive 
renewal dates.
SECTION  2670 .  440.01 (1) (dm) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.01 (1) (dm)  XRenewal date Y means the date, specified in determined by 
the department under s. 440.08 (2), on which a credential expires and before which 
the credential holder must submit a complete renewal application under s. 440.08 
(2m) (a) in order to maintain without interruption the rights, privileges and 
authority conferred by the credential.
SECTION  2671 .  440.03 (13) (b) 3. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2672 .  440.03 (13) (b) 39m. of the statutes is created to read:
440.03 (13) (b) 39m.  Nurse, advanced practice registered.
SECTION  2673 .  440.03 (13) (b) 42. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2674 .  440.03 (13) (br) of the statutes is created to read:
440.03 (13) (br)  When conducting an investigation of an arrest or conviction 
record under par. (a) or (bm), the department shall obtain and review information 
to determine the circumstances of each case or offense, except that the department 
may, in its discretion, complete its investigation of an arrest or conviction record 
without obtaining and reviewing the circumstances of any of the following types of 
violations:
1.  If the violation occurred more than 5 years before the application date, a 
first violation of s. 346.63 (1) (a), (am), or (b) or a local ordinance in conformity 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1530 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2674
therewith, a law of a federally recognized American Indian tribe or band in this 
state in conformity with s. 346.63 (1) (a), (am), or (b), or the law of another 
jurisdiction prohibiting driving or operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated or 
under the influence of alcohol, a controlled substance, a controlled substance 
analog, or a combination thereof or under the influence of any drug that renders the 
person incapable of safely driving, as those or substantially similar terms are used 
in that jurisdiction [s laws.
2.  A violation of s. 125.07 (4) (a) or (b) or a local ordinance that strictly 
conforms to s. 125.07 (4) (a) or (b) or of a substantially similar law of another 
jurisdiction.
3.  A minor, nonviolent ordinance violation, as determined by the department.
SECTION  2675 .  440.03 (14) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.03 (14) (c)  The renewal dates for certificates granted under par. (a) and 
licenses granted under par. (am) are specified in shall be determined by the 
department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the 
department on a form provided by the department and shall include the renewal fee 
determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a) and evidence satisfactory to 
the department that the person [s certification, registration, or accreditation 
specified in par. (a) 1. a., 2. a., or 3. a. has not been revoked.
SECTION  2676 .  440.03 (15) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.03 (15)  The department shall promulgate rules that establish the fees 
specified in ss. 440.05 (10) and 440.08 (2) (d) (2o) (c).
SECTION  2677 .  440.03 (18) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1531 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2677
440.03 (18)  The department may provide a statewide clinician wellness 
program to provide support to healthcare workers in this state in maintaining their 
physical and mental health and ensuring long-term vitality and effectiveness for 
their patients and their profession.  The department shall ensure that the program 
is coordinated with the procedure under sub. (1c).
SECTION  2678 .  440.03 (19) of the statutes is created to read:
440.03 (19)  The department may promulgate rules to achieve enhanced 
credential portability to help facilitate streamlined pathways to credentialing for 
internationally trained professionals and increased reciprocity.
SECTION  2679 .  440.031 of the statutes is created to read:
440.031   Nursing refresher course tuition reimbursement program.   
(1)  The department shall establish and implement a program to award grants to 
individuals who satisfy all of the following:
(a)  The individual has not, as of the date of application for the grant, reached 
the age of 60 years.
(b)  The individual is licensed under ch. 441 as licensed practical nurse or 
registered nurse.
(c)  The individual has not, as of the date of application for the grant, actively 
practiced registered nursing or licensed practical nursing in the 5-year period 
preceding the date of application for a grant.
(d)  The individual has, within the one-year period prior to the date of 
application for the grant, satisfactorily completed a nursing refresher course 
approved by the department under sub. (3).
(2) (a)  Subject to the limitations under this subsection, a grant under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1532 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2679
section shall be an amount necessary to reimburse an individual for the tuition cost 
of the course described in sub. (1) (d).
(b)  The department shall, from the appropriation under s. 20.165 (1) (g), 
allocate at least $150,000 in each fiscal year for grants under this section.  If the 
amount available in any fiscal year is insufficient to pay the full amount per 
individual under sub. (1) (d), the department may prorate the amount of the 
department [s payments among individuals eligible for grants under this section.
(c)  An individual may not receive more than one grant under this section.
(3)  The department shall approve nurse refresher courses as eligible for 
tuition reimbursement under this section.  The department may approve only a 
course offered at a technical college established under s. 38.02.
SECTION  2680 .  440.032 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.032 (5)  LICENSE  RENEWAL .  The renewal dates for licenses granted under 
sub. (3) are specified in shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 
(2) (a) 68c.  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department on a form 
provided by the department and shall include the renewal fee determined by the 
department under s. 440.03 (9) (a) and evidence satisfactory to the department that 
the person [s certification or membership specified in sub. (3) that is required for the 
license has not been revoked or invalidated.
SECTION  2681 .  440.035 (3) of the statutes is created to read:
440.035 (3)  A credentialing board may promulgate rules to achieve enhanced 
credential portability to help facilitate streamlined pathways to credentialing for 
internationally trained professionals and increased reciprocity.
SECTION  2682 .  440.077 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1533 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2682
440.077 (1) (a)  XAdvanced practice registered nurse prescriber Y means an 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber certified licensed under s. 441.16 (2) 
441.09.
SECTION  2683 .  440.077 (2) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.077 (2) (c)  Under the program under par. (a), a participating military 
medical personnel shall be supervised by a physician, physician assistant, 
podiatrist, registered professional nurse, or advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber.  The supervising physician, physician assistant, podiatrist, registered 
professional nurse, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber shall retain 
responsibility for the care of the patient.
SECTION  2684 .  440.08 (2) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.08 (2) (title)  R ENEWAL  DATES , FEES  AND APPLICATIONS .
SECTION  2685 .  440.08 (2) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.08 (2) (a) (intro.)  Except as provided in par. (b) and in ss. 440.51, 442.04, 
444.03, 444.11, 447.04 (2) (c) 2., 447.05 (1) (b), 449.17 (1m) (d), 449.18 (2) (e), 455.06 
(1) (b), 463.10, 463.12, and 463.25 and subch. II of ch. 448, the renewal dates for 
credentials are as follows all of the following apply with respect to renewals of 
credentials:
SECTION  2686 .  440.08 (2) (a) 1. to 72. of the statutes are repealed.
SECTION  2687 .  440.08 (2) (a) 1n. and 2n. of the statutes are created to read:
440.08 (2) (a) 1n.  The department shall establish renewal dates and renewal 
cycles for credentials that are subject to periodic renewal and may adjust the 
renewal dates and renewal cycles so established.  For practicality and expediency, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1534 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2687
the department may stagger renewal cycles among credential holders.  The 
department shall consult with the relevant credentialing boards in establishing 
renewal dates and renewal cycles under this subdivision and shall notify each 
credential holder of any renewal date or renewal cycle established or adjusted under 
this subdivision.  The department shall publish a schedule of renewal dates and 
renewal cycles on its website.
2n.  The department or a credentialing board may promulgate rules to do any 
of the following:
a.  Establish interim continuing education or other reporting requirements 
between renewal dates established under subd. 1n. as needed to account for the 
length of a renewal cycle established under subd. 1n.
b.  Notwithstanding any specific continuing education or similar requirement 
in chs. 440 to 480, adjust or prorate the requirement to align it with the length of a 
renewal cycle established under subd. 1n.
SECTION  2688 .  440.08 (2) (ar) of the statutes is created to read:
440.08 (2) (ar) 1.  Notwithstanding par. (a) and chs. 440 to 480, the 
department may, in cooperation with credentialing boards, establish a system or 
process to transition credential holders from 2-year renewal cycles under chs. 440 to 
480, 2023 stats., to renewal cycles established by the department under par. (a) 1n.
2.  Notwithstanding the fees for credential renewals determined under s. 
440.03 (9), if the department under subd. 1. transitions credential holders from 2-
year renewal cycles under chs. 440 to 480, 2023 stats., to different renewal cycles 
under par. (a) 1n. before revised renewal fees can be determined under s. 440.03 (9), 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1535 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2688
the department may adjust the applicable renewal fee accordingly, in cooperation 
with credentialing boards, until a revised fee can be determined under s. 440.03 (9).
SECTION  2689 .  440.08 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.08 (2) (b)  The renewal fee for an apprentice, journeyman, student or 
temporary credential is $10.  The renewal dates specified in par. (a) determined 
under par. (a) do not apply to apprentice, journeyman, student or temporary 
credentials.
SECTION  2690 .  440.08 (2) (c) of the statutes is renumbered 440.08 (2o) (a) and 
amended to read:
440.08 (2o) (a)  Except as provided in par. (e) (d) and sub. (3), renewal 
applications shall include the applicable renewal fee as determined by the 
department under s. 440.03 (9) (a) or as specified in par. (b).
SECTION  2691 .  440.08 (2) (d) of the statutes is renumbered 440.08 (2o) (c).
SECTION  2692 .  440.08 (2) (e) of the statutes is renumbered 440.08 (2o) (d).
SECTION  2693 .  440.08 (2o) (title) of the statutes is created to read:
440.08 (2o) (title)  R ENEWAL  FEES  AND APPLICATIONS .
SECTION  2694 .  440.08 (2o) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
440.08 (2o) (b)  The renewal fee for an apprentice, journeyman, student, or 
temporary credential is $10.
SECTION  2695 .  440.08 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.08 (4) (a)  Generally.   If the department or the interested examining board 
or affiliated credentialing board, as appropriate, determines that an applicant for 
renewal has failed to comply with sub. (2) (c) (2m) (a) or (3) or with any other 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1536 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2695
applicable requirement for renewal established under chs. 440 to 480 or that the 
denial of an application for renewal of a credential is necessary to protect the public 
health, safety or welfare, the department, examining board or affiliated 
credentialing board may summarily deny the application for renewal by mailing to 
the holder of the credential a notice of denial that includes a statement of the facts 
or conduct that warrant the denial and a notice that the holder may, within 30 days 
after the date on which the notice of denial is mailed, file a written request with the 
department to have the denial reviewed at a hearing before the department, if the 
department issued the credential, or before the examining board or affiliated 
credentialing board that issued the credential.
SECTION  2696 .  440.09 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.09 (3) (a)  A reciprocal credential granted under this section expires on 
the applicable renewal date specified in determined by the department under s. 
440.08 (2) (a), except that if the first renewal date specified in s. 440.08 (2) (a) after 
the date on which the credential is granted is within 180 days of the date on which 
the credential is granted, the credential expires on the 2nd renewal date specified 
in s. 440.08 (2) (a) after the date on which the credential is granted.
SECTION  2697 .  440.094 (1) (c) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
440.094 (1) (c) 1.  A registered nurse, licensed practical nurse, or nurse 
midwife licensed under ch. 441, or an advanced practice registered nurse prescriber 
certified licensed under ch. 441.
SECTION  2698 .  440.094 (2) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.094 (2) (a) (intro.)  Notwithstanding ss. 441.06 (4), 441.15 (2), 441.16, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1537 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2698
441.09 (3) (b), 446.02 (1), 447.03 (1) and (2), 448.03 (1) (a), (b), and (c) and (1m), 
448.51 (1), 448.61, 448.76, 448.961 (1) and (2), 449.02 (1), 450.03 (1), 451.04 (1), 
455.02 (1m), 457.04 (4), (5), (6), and (7), 459.02 (1), 459.24 (1), and 460.02, a health 
care provider may provide services within the scope of the credential that the 
health care provider holds and the department shall grant the health care provider 
a temporary credential to practice under this section if all of the following apply:
SECTION  2699 .  440.25 of the statutes is amended to read:
440.25   Judicial review.   The department may seek judicial review under ch. 
227 of any final disciplinary decision of the medical examining board or affiliated 
credentialing board attached to the medical examining board.  The department 
shall be represented in such review proceedings by an attorney within the 
department.  Upon request of the medical examining board or the interested 
affiliated credentialing board, the attorney general may represent the board.  If the 
attorney general declines to represent the board, the board may retain special 
counsel which shall be paid for out of the appropriation under s. 20.165 (1) (hg) (g).
SECTION  2700 .  440.26 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.26 (3)  ISSUANCE  OF LICENSES ; FEES .  Upon receipt and examination of an 
application executed under sub. (2), and after any investigation that it considers 
necessary, the department shall, if it determines that the applicant is qualified, 
grant the proper license upon payment of the initial credential fee determined by 
the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).  No license shall be issued for a longer period 
than 2 years, and the The license of a private detective shall expire on the renewal 
date of the license of the private detective agency, even if the license of the private 
detective has not been in effect for a full  2 years licensure period.  Renewals of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1538 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2700
original licenses issued under this section shall be issued in accordance with 
renewal forms prescribed by the department and shall be accompanied by the 
applicable fees specified in s. 440.08 or determined by the department under s. 
440.03 (9) (a).  The department may not renew a license unless the applicant 
provides evidence that the applicant has in force at the time of renewal the bond or 
liability policy specified in this section.
SECTION  2701 .  440.26 (5m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.26 (5m)  (b)  The renewal dates for permits issued under this subsection 
are specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  
Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department on a form provided by 
the department and shall include the renewal fee determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2702 .  440.313 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.313 (1)  The renewal date for licenses granted under this subchapter is 
specified in shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  
Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department on a form provided by 
the department and shall include the renewal fee determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2703 .  440.415 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.415 (2) (a)  The renewal date for a license granted under sub. (1) is 
specified in shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a) 69m.  
A renewal application shall be submitted to the department on a form prescribed by 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1539 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2703
the department and shall include any information required by the department by 
rule.
SECTION  2704 .  440.71 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.71 (3)  R ENEWAL .  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the 
department on a form provided by the department on or before the applicable 
renewal date specified determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a) and 
shall include the applicable renewal fee determined by the department under s. 
440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2705 .  440.88 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.88 (4)  A PPLICATIONS ; CERTIFICATION  PERIOD .  An application for 
certification as a substance abuse counselor, clinical supervisor, or prevention 
specialist under this section shall be made on a form provided by the department 
and filed with the department and shall be accompanied by the initial credential fee 
determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).  The renewal date for 
certification as a substance abuse counselor, clinical supervisor, or prevention 
specialist is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) 
(a), and the renewal fee for such certifications is determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).  Renewal of The department shall by rule prescribe the 
number of times that a certification as a substance abuse counselor-in-training, a 
clinical supervisor-in-training, or a prevention specialist-in-training may be made 
only twice renewed.
SECTION  2706 .  440.905 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.905 (2)  The board has rule-making authority and may promulgate rules 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1540 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2706
relating to the regulation of cemetery authorities, cemetery salespersons, and 
cemetery preneed sellers.  The board may determine, by rule, a fee under s. 440.05 
(1) (a) and under s. 440.08 (2) (a) 21. that is sufficient to fund the board [s operating 
costs.
SECTION  2707 .  440.91 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.91 (1) (c)  The renewal dates for licenses granted under par. (b) are 
specified in shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), and 
the renewal fees for such licenses are determined by the department under s. 
440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2708 .  440.91 (1m) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.91 (1m)  (c)  The renewal date and renewal fee for a registration granted 
under par. (b) are specified in shall be as determined by the department under s. 
440.08 (2).  The department shall determine the renewal fee for a registration 
granted under par. (b) under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2709 .  440.91 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.91 (4)  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the board on a form 
provided by the board on or before the applicable renewal date specified determined 
by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a) and shall include the applicable renewal 
fee determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2710 .  440.92 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.92 (1) (c)  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the board on a form 
provided by the board on or before the applicable renewal date specified determined 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1541 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2710
by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a) and shall include the applicable renewal 
fee determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2711 .  440.972 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.972 (2)  The renewal date for certificates granted under this section is 
specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a) 38g., and 
the renewal fee for such certificates is determined by the department under s. 
440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2712 .  440.974 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.974 (2)  The department shall promulgate rules establishing continuing 
education requirements for individuals registered under this subchapter.  The rules 
promulgated under this subsection shall require the completion of at least 40 hours 
of continuing education every  2 years, except that the rules may not require 
continuing education for an applicant for renewal of a registration that expires on 
the 1st and 2nd renewal dates after the date on which the department initially 
granted the registration 2-year period, except that the department shall shall, for 
up to a 2-year period, exempt new registrants from the requirement under this 
subsection.
SECTION  2713 .  440.98 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.98 (6)  APPLICATIONS .  An application for a sanitarian registration under 
this section shall be made on a form provided by the department and filed with the 
department and shall be accompanied by the initial credential fee determined by 
the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).  The renewal date for a sanitarian 
registration is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1542 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2713
(2) (a), and the renewal fee for such registration is determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2714 .  440.981 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.981 (1)  No person may use the title Xlicensed midwife, Y describe or imply 
that he or she is a licensed midwife, or represent himself or herself as a licensed 
midwife unless the person is granted a license under this subchapter or is licensed 
as  a nurse-midwife under s. 441.15 an advanced practice registered nurse and 
possesses a certified nurse-midwife specialty designation under s. 441.09.
SECTION  2715 .  440.982 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.982 (1)  No person may engage in the practice of midwifery unless the 
person is granted a license under this subchapter, is granted a temporary permit 
pursuant to a rule promulgated under s. 440.984 (2m), or is licensed as  a nurse-
midwife under s. 441.15 an advanced practice registered nurse and possesses a 
certified nurse-midwife specialty designation under s. 441.09.
SECTION  2716 .  440.983 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.983 (1)  The renewal date for licenses granted under this subchapter is 
specified in shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  
Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department on a form provided by 
the department and shall include the renewal fee determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2717 .  440.987 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
440.987 (2)  One member who is licensed as  a nurse-midwife under s. 441.15 
an advanced practice registered nurse and possesses a certified nurse-midwife 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1543 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2717
specialty designation under s. 441.09 and who practices in an out-of-hospital 
setting.
SECTION  2718 .  440.992 (6) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2719 .  440.9935 of the statutes is amended to read:
440.9935   Renewal.   The renewal date for certificates of registration issued 
under this subchapter is specified in shall be as determined by the department 
under s. 440.08 (2) (a), and the renewal fee for such certificates is determined by the 
department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the 
department on a form provided by the department.
SECTION  2720 .  441.001 (1c) of the statutes is created to read:
441.001 (1c)  ADVANCED  PRACTICE  REGISTERED  NURSING .  XAdvanced practice 
registered nursing Y means the practice of a certified nurse-midwife, the practice of 
a certified registered nurse anesthetist, the practice of a clinical nurse specialist, 
and the practice of a nurse practitioner.
SECTION  2721 .  441.001 (3c) of the statutes is created to read:
441.001 (3c)  P RACTICE  OF A CERTIFIED  NURSE -MIDWIFE .  XPractice of a 
certified nurse-midwife Y means practice in the management of women [s health 
care, pregnancy, childbirth, postpartum care for newborns, family planning, and 
gynecological services consistent with the standards of practice of the American 
College of Nurse-Midwives or its successor.
SECTION  2722 .  441.001 (3g) of the statutes is created to read:
441.001 (3g)  P RACTICE  OF A CERTIFIED  REGISTERED  NURSE  ANESTHETIST .  
XPractice of a certified registered nurse anesthetist Y means providing anesthesia 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1544 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2722
care, pain management care, and care related to anesthesia and pain management 
for persons across their lifespan, whose health status may range from healthy 
through all levels of acuity, including persons with immediate, severe, or life-
threatening illness or injury, in diverse settings, including hospitals, ambulatory 
surgery centers, outpatient clinics, medical offices, and home health care settings.
SECTION  2723 .  441.001 (3n) of the statutes is created to read:
441.001 (3n)  PRACTICE  OF A CLINICAL  NURSE  SPECIALIST .  XPractice of a 
clinical nurse specialist Y means providing advanced nursing care, primarily in 
health care facilities, including the diagnosis and treatment of illness for identified 
specific populations based on a specialty.
SECTION  2724 .  441.001 (3r) of the statutes is created to read:
441.001 (3r)  P RACTICE  OF A NURSE  PRACTITIONER .  XPractice of a nurse 
practitioner Y means practice in ambulatory, acute, long-term, or other health care 
settings as a primary or specialty care provider who provides health services, 
including assessing, diagnosing, treating, or managing acute, episodic, and chronic 
illnesses.
SECTION  2725 .  441.001 (3w) of the statutes is created to read:
441.001 (3w)   PRESCRIPTION  ORDER .  XPrescription order Y has the meaning 
given in s. 450.01 (21).
SECTION  2726 .  441.001 (5) of the statutes is created to read:
441.001 (5)  RECOGNIZED  ROLE .  XRecognized role Y means one of the following 
roles:
(a)  Certified nurse-midwife.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1545 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2726
(b)  Certified registered nurse anesthetist.
(c)  Clinical nurse specialist.
(d)  Nurse practitioner.
SECTION  2727 .  441.01 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.01 (3)  The board may promulgate rules to establish minimum standards 
for schools for professional nurses and, schools for licensed practical nurses, and 
schools for advanced practice registered nurses, including all related clinical units 
and facilities, and make and provide periodic surveys and consultations to such 
schools.  It The board may also establish promulgate rules to prevent unauthorized 
persons from practicing professional nursing.  It shall approve all rules for the 
administration of this chapter in accordance with ch. 227.
SECTION  2728 .  441.01 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.01 (4)  The board shall direct that those schools that qualify be placed on 
a list of schools the board has approved for professional nurses or, of schools the 
board has approved for licensed practical nurses, or of schools the board has 
approved for advanced practice registered nurses on application and proof of 
qualifications;, and the board shall make a study of nursing education and initiate 
promulgate rules and policies to improve it.
SECTION  2729 .  441.01 (7) (a) (intro.) and 1. of the statutes are amended to 
read:
441.01 (7) (a) (intro.)  The board shall require each applicant for the renewal 
Biennially, each holder of a registered nurse or licensed practical nurse license 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1546 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2729
issued under this chapter to shall do all of the following as a condition for renewing 
the license:
1.  Complete and submit to the department with the application for renewal of 
the license a nursing workforce survey developed by the department of workforce 
development under s. 106.30 (2).
SECTION  2730 .  441.01 (7) (a) (intro.) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 
Wisconsin Act .... (this act), is amended to read:
441.01 (7) (a) (intro.)  Biennially, each holder of a registered nurse or, licensed 
practical nurse, or advanced practice registered nurse license issued under this 
chapter shall do all of the following:
SECTION  2731 .  441.01 (7) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.01 (7) (b)  The board may not renew a registered nurse or licensed 
practical nurse license under this chapter unless the renewal applicant has 
completed the nursing workforce survey to the satisfaction of the board.  The board 
shall establish standards to determine whether the nursing workforce survey has 
been completed.  The board shall, by no later than June 30 of each odd-numbered 
year, submit all completed nursing workforce survey forms to the department of 
workforce development.
SECTION  2732 .  441.01 (7) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
441.01 (7) (c)  An applicant who is renewing both a registered nurse and 
advanced practice registered nurse license under s. 441.09 (1) (c) is only required to 
pay a single fee under par. (a) 2.
SECTION  2733 .  441.06 (title) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1547 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2733
441.06   (title)  Registered nurses; civil liability exemption.
SECTION  2734 .  441.06 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.06 (3)  A registered nurse practicing for compensation shall, on or before 
the applicable renewal date specified determined by the department under s. 
440.08 (2) (a), submit to the board on furnished forms a statement giving name, 
residence, and other facts that the board requires, with the nursing workforce 
survey and fee required under s. 441.01 (7) and the applicable renewal fee 
determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2735 .  441.06 (3) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act 
.... (this act), is amended to read:
441.06 (3)   A  Except as provided in s. 441.09 (1) (c), a registered nurse 
practicing for compensation shall, on or before the applicable renewal date 
determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2), submit to the board on furnished 
forms a statement giving name, residence, and other facts that the board requires, 
with the applicable renewal fee determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) 
(a).
SECTION  2736 .  441.06 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.06 (4)  Except as provided in ss. 257.03 and 440.077, no person may 
practice or attempt to practice professional nursing, nor use the title, letters, or 
anything else to indicate that he or she is a registered or professional nurse unless 
he or she is licensed under this section.  Except as provided in ss. 257.03 and 
440.077, no person not so licensed may use in connection with his or her nursing 
employment or vocation any title or anything else to indicate that he or she is a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1548 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2736
trained, certified or graduate nurse.  This subsection does not apply to any 
registered nurse who holds a multistate license, as defined in s. 441.51 (2) (h), 
issued by a jurisdiction, other than this state, that has adopted the nurse licensure 
compact under s. 441.51.
SECTION  2737 .  441.06 (7) of the statutes is renumbered 441.09 (7) and 
amended to read:
441.09 (7)  C IVIL LIABILITY .  No person certified licensed as an advanced 
practice registered nurse prescriber under s. 441.16 (2) this section is liable for civil 
damages for any of the following:
(a)  Reporting in good faith to the department of transportation under s. 
146.82 (3) a patient [s name and other information relevant to a physical or mental 
condition of the patient that in the advanced practice nurse prescriber [s registered 
nurse[s judgment impairs the patient [s ability to exercise reasonable and ordinary 
control over a motor vehicle.
(b)  In good faith, not reporting to the department of transportation under s. 
146.82 (3) a patient [s name and other information relevant to a physical or mental 
condition of the patient that in the advanced practice nurse prescriber [s registered 
nurse[s judgment does not impair the patient [s ability to exercise reasonable and 
ordinary control over a motor vehicle.
SECTION  2738 .  441.07 (1g) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.07 (1g) (intro.)  Subject to the rules promulgated under s. 440.03 (1), the 
board may deny an initial license or revoke, limit, suspend, or deny the renewal of a 
license of a registered nurse, nurse-midwife advanced practice registered nurse, or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1549 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2738
licensed practical nurse; deny an initial certificate or revoke, limit, suspend, or deny 
the renewal of a certificate to prescribe drugs or devices granted under s. 441.16; or 
reprimand a registered nurse, nurse-midwife advanced practice registered nurse, 
or licensed practical nurse, if the board finds that the applicant or licensee 
committed any of the following:
SECTION  2739 .  441.07 (1g) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.07 (1g) (a)  Fraud in the procuring or renewal of the certificate or license.
SECTION  2740 .  441.07 (1g) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.07 (1g) (c)  Acts which that show the registered nurse, nurse-midwife 
advanced practice registered nurse, or licensed practical nurse to be unfit or 
incompetent by reason of negligence, abuse of alcohol or other drugs, or mental 
incompetency.
SECTION  2741 .  441.07 (1g) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.07 (1g) (e)  A violation of any state or federal law that regulates 
prescribing or dispensing drugs or devices, if the person has a certificate to 
prescribe drugs or devices under s. 441.16 may issue prescription orders under s. 
441.09 (2).
SECTION  2742 .  441.09 of the statutes is created to read:
441.09   Advanced practice registered nurses; civil liability exemption.  
(1)  LICENSE .  (a)  An applicant who satisfies all of the following requirements may 
apply to the board for initial licensure by the board as an advanced practice 
registered nurse:
1.  The applicant satisfies one of the following criteria:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1550 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
a.  The applicant holds a valid license to practice as a registered nurse issued 
under s. 441.06 (1), (1c), or (1m).
b.  The applicant applies concurrently for a license under s. 441.06 (1), (1c), or 
(1m) with the application for a license under this paragraph.
c.  The applicant is a registered nurse who holds a multistate license, as 
defined in s. 441.51 (2) (h), issued by a jurisdiction, other than this state, that has 
adopted the nurse licensure compact.
2.  The applicant provides evidence satisfactory to the board that he or she 
satisfies one of the following criteria:
a.  The applicant has completed a graduate-level or postgraduate-level 
education program that is approved by the board and that prepares the applicant 
for the practice of advanced practice registered nursing in one of the 4 recognized 
roles, and the applicant holds a current certification by a national certifying body 
approved by the board.
b.  On January 1, 2026, the applicant was licensed as a registered nurse in this 
state and was practicing in a recognized role, and the applicant satisfies additional 
criteria established by the board by rule under sub. (6) (a) 3. relating to practice, 
education, or certification.
3.  The applicant pays the fee specified under s. 440.05 (1).
4.  The applicant provides to the board evidence of any malpractice liability 
insurance coverage required under sub. (5).
5.  If the applicant is applying to receive a certified nurse-midwife specialty 
designation under par. (b) 1., the applicant does all of the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1551 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
a.  Provides evidence satisfactory to the board that the applicant is currently 
certified by the American Midwifery Certification Board or its successor.
b.  Files with the board any plan required under sub. (3m) (i).
6.  The applicant does not have an arrest or conviction record, subject to ss. 
111.321, 111.322, and 111.335.
7.  The applicant meets any other criteria established by the board by rule 
under sub. (6) (a) 3. relating to the education, training, or experience required for 
each recognized role.
(b) 1. a.  Subject to s. 441.07 (1g), the board shall grant an advanced practice 
registered nurse license to an applicant the board determines meets the 
requirements under par. (a).  The board shall also grant a person who is granted a 
license under this subd. 1. a. one or more specialty designations corresponding to 
the recognized roles for which the board determines that the person qualifies based 
on the person [s qualifications under par. (a).
b.  The board shall grant an advanced practice registered nurse license to each 
individual who, on the day before the effective date of this subd. 1. b. .... [LRB 
inserts date], was certified to issue prescription orders under s. 441.16, 2023 stats.  
The board shall also grant a person who is granted a license under this subd. 1. b. 
one or more specialty designations corresponding to the recognized roles for which 
the board determines that the person qualifies based on the person [s qualifications.
c.  The board shall grant an advanced practice registered nurse license to each 
individual who, on the day before the effective date of this subd. 1. c. .... [LRB 
inserts date], was licensed as a nurse-midwife under s. 441.15, 2023 stats.  The 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1552 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
board shall also grant a person who is granted a license under this subd. 1. c. a 
nurse-midwife specialty designation.
2.  Each specialty designation granted under subd. 1. shall appear on the 
person[s advanced practice registered nurse license.
3.  The board may not grant an advanced practice registered nurse license to a 
person applying concurrently for a license under s. 441.06 (1), (1c), or (1m), unless 
the board also grants the person the license under s. 441.06 (1), (1c), or (1m).
4.  The board may place specific limitations on a person licensed as an 
advanced practice registered nurse as a condition of licensure.
5.  If all of the following apply to a person, a notation indicating that the person 
may not issue prescription orders shall appear on the person [s advanced practice 
registered nurse license:
a.  The person is granted an advanced practice registered nurse license under 
subd. 1. a. and satisfies only par. (a) 2. b. but not par. (a) 2. a., or the person is 
granted an advanced practice registered nurse license under subd. 1. c.
b.  On January 1, 2026, the person did not hold a certificate under s. 441.16 
(2), 2023 stats.
(c)  On or before the applicable renewal date determined by the department 
under s. 440.08 (2), an advanced practice registered nurse shall submit to the board 
on a form furnished by the board a statement giving his or her name and residence, 
the nursing workforce survey and fee required under s. 441.01 (7), evidence of 
having satisfied the continuing education requirements under sub. (4), evidence of 
any malpractice liability insurance coverage required under sub. (5), any plan 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1553 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
required under sub. (3m) (i), current evidence that the person satisfies each of the 
requirements under par. (a) 1., 2., 5. a., and 7. that apply with respect to the person, 
and any other information that the board requires by rule, with the applicable 
renewal fee determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).  The board shall 
grant to a person who satisfies the requirements under this paragraph the renewal 
of his or her advanced practice registered nurse license and specialty designations 
granted under par. (b) 1. and shall, if the person holds a license under s. 441.06 (1), 
(1c), or (1m), also grant the renewal of that license.
(2)  PRESCRIBING  AUTHORITY .  (a)  Except as provided in par. (b), an advanced 
practice registered nurse may issue prescription orders, subject to the rules 
promulgated under sub. (6) (a) 1. and 4., and may provide expedited partner 
therapy in the manner described in s. 441.092.
(b)  An advanced practice registered nurse may not issue prescription orders if 
a notation under sub. (1) (b) 5. indicating that the advanced practice registered 
nurse may not issue prescription orders appears on the advanced practice 
registered nurse [s license.
(3)  LICENSE  REQUIRED ; USE OF TITLES .  (a) 1.  The holder of a license issued 
under this section is an Xadvanced practice registered nurse, Y may append to his or 
her name the title XA.P.R.N., Y and is authorized to practice advanced practice 
registered nursing.
2.  Notwithstanding s. 441.14, the holder of a specialty designation for a 
recognized role granted under sub. (1) (b) 1. may append to his or her name the title 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1554 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
and an abbreviation described under par. (b) 2. corresponding to that recognized 
role.
(b) 1.  Except as provided in sub. (3m) (h) and s. 257.03, no person may practice 
or attempt to practice advanced practice registered nursing, nor use the title 
Xadvanced practice registered nurse, Y the title XA.P.R.N., Y or anything else to 
indicate that he or she is an advanced practice registered nurse unless he or she is 
licensed under this section.
2.  Except as provided in s. 257.03, no person may do any of the following:
a.  Use the title Xcertified nurse-midwife, Y the title XC.N.M.,Y or anything else 
to indicate that he or she is a certified nurse-midwife unless he or she has been 
granted a certified nurse-midwife specialty designation under sub. (1) (b) 1.
b.  Use the title Xcertified registered nurse anesthetist, Y the title XC.R.N.A., Y 
or anything else to indicate that he or she is a certified registered nurse anesthetist 
unless he or she has been granted a certified registered nurse anesthetist specialty 
designation under sub. (1) (b) 1.
c.  Use the title Xclinical nurse specialist, Y the title XC.N.S.,Y or anything else 
to indicate that he or she is a clinical nurse specialist unless he or she has been 
granted a clinical nurse specialist specialty designation under sub. (1) (b) 1.
d.  Use the title Xnurse practitioner, Y the title XN.P.,Y or anything else to 
indicate that he or she is a nurse practitioner unless he or she has been granted a 
nurse practitioner specialty designation under sub. (1) (b) 1.
(3m)   PRACTICE  REQUIREMENTS  AND LIMITATIONS .  (a) 1.  An advanced practice 
registered nurse licensed under this section may, except as provided in subd. 2. and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1555 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
par. (b), practice advanced practice registered nursing only in collaboration with a 
physician or dentist.
2.  Subdivision 1. does not apply to an advanced practice registered nurse with 
a certified nurse-midwife specialty designation.
(b)  An advanced practice registered nurse to whom par. (a) 1. applies may, 
except as provided in pars. (d) 1. and (f), practice advanced practice registered 
nursing in a recognized role without being supervised by or collaborating with, and 
independent of, a physician or dentist if the board verifies, upon application of the 
advanced practice registered nurse, that the advanced practice registered nurse 
satisfies all of the following:
1.  The advanced practice registered nurse has, except as provided in subd. 3., 
completed 3,840 hours of professional nursing in a clinical setting.  Clinical hours 
completed as a requirement of a nursing program offered by a qualifying school of 
nursing described under s. 441.06 (1) (c) may be used to satisfy the requirement 
under this subdivision.  Hours completed to satisfy a requirement of an education 
program described in sub. (1) (a) 2. a. may not be used to satisfy the requirement 
under this subdivision.
2.  At least 24 months have elapsed since the advanced practice registered 
nurse first began completing the clinical hours required by a nursing program 
described under subd. 1.
3.  The advanced practice registered nurse has completed 3,840 clinical hours 
of advanced practice registered nursing practice in that recognized role while 
working with a physician or dentist who was immediately available for consultation 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1556 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
and accepted responsibility for the actions of the advanced practice registered nurse 
during those 3,840 hours of practice.  The advanced practice registered nurse may 
substitute additional hours of advanced practice registered nursing working with a 
physician or dentist described in this subdivision to count toward the requirement 
under subd. 1.  Each such additional hour shall count toward one hour of the 
requirement under subd. 1.
4.  At least 24 months have elapsed since the advanced practice registered 
nurse first began practicing advanced practice registered nursing in that 
recognized role as described in subd. 3.
(c)  For purposes of par. (b) 3., hours of advanced practice registered nursing 
practice may include the lawful practice of advanced practice registered nursing 
outside this state or the lawful practice of advanced practice registered nursing in 
this state prior to the effective date of this paragraph .... [LRB inserts date].
(d) 1.  Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, an advanced practice 
registered nurse may provide chronic pain management services only while 
working in a collaborative relationship with a physician who, through education, 
training, and experience, specializes in pain management.  This subdivision applies 
regardless of whether the advanced practice registered nurse has qualified for 
independent practice under par. (b).
2.  Except as provided in par. (f), subd. 1. does not apply to an advanced 
practice registered nurse who is providing chronic pain management services in a 
hospital, as defined in s. 50.33 (2), or a clinic associated with a hospital, and who 
has qualified for independent practice under par. (b).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1557 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
3.  Except as provided in par. (f), subd. 1. does not apply to an advanced 
practice registered nurse who has qualified for independent practice under par. (b) 
and has privileges in a hospital, as defined in s. 50.33 (2), to provide chronic pain 
management services without a collaborative relationship with a physician.
(e)  For purposes of pars. (a) 1. and (d) 1. and 3., a collaborative relationship is 
a process in which an advanced practice registered nurse is working with a 
physician or dentist, in each other [s presence when necessary, to deliver health care 
services within the scope of the advanced practice registered nurse [s training, 
education, and experience.  The advanced practice registered nurse shall document 
such a collaborative relationship.
(em)  Any advanced practice registered nurse who may provide chronic pain 
management services without a collaborative relationship with a physician as 
provided in par. (d) 3. shall inform the hospital in which the advanced practice 
registered nurse has privileges as described under par. (d) 3. that the advanced 
practice registered nurse may provide chronic pain management services without a 
collaborative relationship with a physician.
(f)  Nothing in this section prohibits an entity employing or with a relationship 
with an advanced practice registered nurse from establishing additional 
requirements for an advanced practice registered nurse as a condition of 
employment or relationship.
(g)  An advanced practice registered nurse shall adhere to professional 
standards when managing situations that are beyond the advanced practice 
registered nurse [s expertise.  If a particular patient [s needs are beyond the 
advanced practice registered nurse [s expertise, the advanced practice registered 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1558 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
nurse shall, as warranted by the patient [s needs, consult or collaborate with or refer 
the patient to at least one of the following:
1.  A physician licensed under ch. 448.
2.  Another health care provider for whom the advanced practice registered 
nurse has reasonable evidence of having a scope of practice that includes the 
authorization to address the patient [s needs.
(h)  An advanced practice registered nurse licensed under this section may 
delegate a task or order to another clinically trained health care worker if the task 
or order is within the scope of the advanced practice registered nurse [s practice, the 
advanced practice registered nurse is competent to perform the task or issue the 
order, and the advanced practice registered nurse has reasonable evidence that the 
health care worker is minimally competent to perform the task or issue the order 
under the circumstances.
(i)  An advanced practice registered nurse with a certified nurse-midwife 
specialty designation may not offer to deliver babies outside of a hospital setting 
unless the advanced practice registered nurse files with the board, and the board 
approves, a proactive plan for ensuring appropriate care or care transitions 
conforming with professional standards for patients with higher acuity or 
emergency care needs that exceed the advanced practice registered nurse [s scope of 
practice.  An advanced practice registered nurse who offers to deliver babies outside 
of a hospital setting shall file a plan under this paragraph when applying for an 
initial license under this section or a renewal of a license under this section, shall 
keep the plan current with the board, and shall follow the plan.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1559 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
(4)  CONTINUING  EDUCATION .  Every advanced practice registered nurse shall 
submit to the board evidence of having completed at least 16 contact hours per 
biennium in clinical pharmacology or therapeutics relevant to the advanced 
practice registered nurse [s area of practice.  The board may promulgate rules 
regarding the continuing education requirements under this subsection.
(5)  MALPRACTICE  LIABILITY  INSURANCE .  Except for a person whose employer 
has in effect malpractice liability insurance that provides coverage for the person in 
the amounts specified under s. 655.23 (4), no person may practice advanced practice 
registered nursing unless he or she at all times has in effect malpractice liability 
insurance coverage that provides coverage of not less than the amounts established 
under s. 655.23 (4).  An advanced practice registered nurse shall submit evidence of 
that coverage to the board when applying for an initial license under this section or 
a renewal of a license under this section.  An advanced practice registered nurse 
shall also submit such evidence to the board upon request of the board.
(6)  RULES .  (a)  The board shall promulgate rules necessary to administer this 
section, including rules for all of the following:
1.  Further defining the scope of practice of an advanced practice registered 
nurse, practice of a certified nurse-midwife, practice of a certified registered nurse 
anesthetist, practice of a nurse practitioner, and practice of a clinical nurse 
specialist and defining the scope of practice within which an advanced practice 
registered nurse may issue prescription orders under sub. (2).
2.  Determining acceptable national certification for purposes of sub. (1) (a) 2. 
a.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1560 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2742
3.  Establishing the appropriate education, training, or experience 
requirements that a registered nurse must satisfy in order to be an advanced 
practice registered nurse and to obtain each specialty designation corresponding to 
the recognized roles.
4.  Specifying the classes of drugs, individual drugs, or devices that may not be 
prescribed by an advanced practice registered nurse under sub. (2).
5.  Specifying the conditions to be met for registered nurses to do the following:
a.  Administer a drug prescribed by an advanced practice registered nurse.
b.  Administer a drug at the direction of an advanced practice registered nurse.
7.  Establishing standards of professional conduct for advanced practice 
registered nurses generally and for practicing in each recognized role.
(am)  Notwithstanding par. (a), the board may promulgate rules to implement 
sub. (3m) (b).
(b)  The board may not promulgate rules that expand the scope of practice of 
an advanced practice registered nurse beyond the practices within advanced 
practice registered nursing.
SECTION  2743 .  441.092 of the statutes is created to read:
441.092   Expedited partner therapy.   (1)  In this section:
(b)  XAntimicrobial drug Y has the meaning given in s. 448.035 (1) (b).
(c)  XExpedited partner therapy Y has the meaning given in s. 448.035 (1) (c).
(2)  Notwithstanding the requirements of s. 448.9785, an advanced practice 
registered nurse who may issue prescription orders under s. 441.09 (2) may provide 
expedited partner therapy if a patient is diagnosed as infected with a chlamydial 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1561 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2743
infection, gonorrhea, or trichomoniasis and the patient has had sexual contact with 
a sexual partner during which the chlamydial infection, gonorrhea, or 
trichomoniasis may have been transmitted to or from the sexual partner.  The 
advanced practice registered nurse shall attempt to obtain the name of the patient [s 
sexual partner.  A prescription order for an antimicrobial drug prepared under this 
subsection shall include the name and address of the patient [s sexual partner, if 
known.  If the advanced practice registered nurse is unable to obtain the name of 
the patient [s sexual partner, the prescription order shall include, in ordinary, bold-
faced capital letters, the words, Xexpedited partner therapy Y or the letters XEPT.Y
(3)  The advanced practice registered nurse shall provide the patient with a 
copy of the information sheet prepared by the department of health services under 
s. 46.03 (44) and shall request that the patient give the information sheet to the 
person with whom the patient had sexual contact.
(4) (a)  Except as provided in par. (b), an advanced practice registered nurse is 
immune from civil liability for injury to or the death of a person who takes any 
antimicrobial drug if the antimicrobial drug is prescribed, dispensed, or furnished 
under this section and if expedited partner therapy is provided as specified under 
this section.
(b)  The immunity under par. (a) does not extend to the donation, distribution, 
furnishing, or dispensing of an antimicrobial drug by an advanced practice 
registered nurse whose act or omission involves reckless, wanton, or intentional 
misconduct.
SECTION  2744 .  441.10 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1562 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2744
441.10 (6)  On or before the applicable renewal date specified determined by 
the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), a licensed practical nurse practicing for 
compensation shall submit to the board, on forms furnished by the department, an 
application for license renewal, together with a statement giving name, residence, 
nature and extent of practice as a licensed practical nurse during the prior year and 
prior unreported years, the nursing workforce survey and fee required under s. 
441.01 (7), and other facts bearing upon current competency that the board 
requires, accompanied by the applicable license renewal fee determined by the 
department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2745 .  441.10 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.10 (7)  No license is required for practical nursing, but, except as provided 
in s. 257.03, no person without a license may hold himself or herself out as a 
licensed practical nurse or licensed attendant, use the title or letters XTrained 
Practical Nurse Y or XT.P.N.Y, XLicensed Practical Nurse Y or XL.P.N.Y, XLicensed 
Attendant Y or XL.A.Y, XTrained Attendant Y or XT.A.Y, or otherwise seek to indicate 
that he or she is a licensed practical nurse or licensed attendant.  No licensed 
practical nurse or licensed attendant may use the title, or otherwise seek to act as a 
registered, licensed, graduate or professional nurse.  Anyone violating this 
subsection shall be subject to the penalties prescribed by s. 441.13.  The board shall 
grant without examination a license as a licensed practical nurse to any person who 
was on July 1, 1949, a licensed attendant.  This subsection does not apply to any 
licensed practical nurse who holds a multistate license, as defined in s. 441.51 (2) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1563 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2745
(h), issued by a jurisdiction, other than this state, that has adopted the nurse 
licensure compact under s. 441.51.
SECTION  2746 .  441.11 (title) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2747 .  441.11 (1) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2748 .  441.11 (2) of the statutes is renumbered 441.09 (5m) and 
amended to read:
441.09 (5m)   LICENSURE  EXEMPTION .  The provisions of s. 448.04 (1) (g) 448.03 
(1) (d) do not apply to  a  an advanced practice registered nurse licensed under this 
section who possesses a certified registered nurse anesthetist specialty designation 
under sub. (1) (b) 1. or to a person who engages in the practice of a nurse anesthetist 
while performing official duties for the armed services or federal health services of 
the United States.
SECTION  2749 .  441.11 (3) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2750 .  441.14 of the statutes is created to read:
441.14  Use of terms representing physicians.   No person licensed under 
this chapter, unless the person is also licensed as a physician under subch. II of ch. 
448, may use or assume the following words, letters, or terms in his or her title, 
advertising, or description of services: Xphysician, Y Xsurgeon, Y Xosteopathic 
physician, Y Xosteopathic surgeon, Y Xmedical doctor, Y Xanesthesiologist, Y 
Xcardiologist, Y Xdermatologist, Y Xendocrinologist, Y Xgastroenterologist, Y 
Xgynecologist, Y Xhematologist, Y Xlaryngologist, Y Xnephrologist, Y Xneurologist, Y 
Xobstetrician, Y Xoncologist, Y Xophthalmologist, Y Xorthopedic surgeon, Y 
Xorthopedist, Y Xosteopath, Y Xotologist, Y Xotolaryngologist, Y Xotorhinolaryngologist, Y 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1564 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2750
Xpathologist, Y Xpediatrician, Y Xprimary care physician, Y Xproctologist, Y 
Xpsychiatrist, Y Xradiologist, Y Xrheumatologist, Y Xrhinologist, Y Xurologist, Y or any 
other words, letters, or abbreviations, alone or in combination with other titles or 
words, that represent or tend to represent that the person is a physician.
SECTION  2751 .  441.15 of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin Act .... 
(this act), is repealed.
SECTION  2752 .  441.15 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.15 (3) (b)  On or before the applicable renewal date specified determined 
by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), a person issued a license under par. (a) 
and practicing nurse-midwifery shall submit to the board on furnished forms a 
statement giving his or her name, residence, and other information that the board 
requires by rule, with the applicable renewal fee determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).  If applicable, the person shall also submit evidence 
satisfactory to the board that he or she has in effect the malpractice liability 
insurance required under the rules promulgated under sub. (5) (bm).  The board 
shall grant to a person who pays the fee determined by the department under s. 
440.03 (9) (a) for renewal of a license to practice nurse-midwifery and who satisfies 
the requirements of this paragraph the renewal of his or her license to practice 
nurse-midwifery and the renewal of his or her license to practice as a registered 
nurse.
SECTION  2753 .  441.16 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2754 .  441.18 (2) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.18 (2) (a) (intro.)  An advanced practice registered nurse certified to who 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1565 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2754
may issue prescription orders under s. 441.16 441.09 (2) may do any of the 
following:
SECTION  2755 .  441.18 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.18 (2) (b)  An advanced practice registered nurse who prescribes or 
delivers an opioid antagonist under par. (a) 1. shall ensure that the person to whom 
the opioid antagonist is prescribed has or has the capacity to provide the knowledge 
and training necessary to safely administer the opioid antagonist to an individual 
undergoing an opioid-related overdose and that the person demonstrates the 
capacity to ensure that any individual to whom the person further delivers the 
opioid antagonist has or receives that knowledge and training.
SECTION  2756 .  441.18 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
441.18 (3)  An advanced practice registered nurse who, acting in good faith, 
prescribes or delivers an opioid antagonist in accordance with sub. (2), or who, 
acting in good faith, otherwise lawfully prescribes or dispenses an opioid 
antagonist, shall be immune from criminal or civil liability and may not be subject 
to professional discipline under s. 441.07 for any outcomes resulting from 
prescribing, delivering, or dispensing the opioid antagonist.
SECTION  2757 .  441.19 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2758 .  442.083 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
442.083 (1)  The renewal dates for licenses issued under this chapter are 
specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), and the 
renewal fees for such licenses are determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) 
(a).  The department may not renew a license issued to a firm unless, at the time of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1566 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2758
renewal, the firm satisfies the requirements under s. 442.08 (2) and demonstrates, 
to the satisfaction of the department, that the firm has complied with the 
requirements under s. 442.087.
SECTION  2759 .  442.083 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
442.083 (2) (a)  The examining board shall promulgate rules establishing 
continuing education requirements for renewal of licenses granted to individuals 
licensed under this chapter.  The rules promulgated under this paragraph may not 
require an individual to complete more than 80 continuing education credits during 
the per 2-year period immediately preceding the renewal date specified under s. 
440.08 (2) (a).
SECTION  2760 .  443.015 (1e) of the statutes is amended to read:
443.015 (1e)  The rules promulgated under sub. (1) by the registered interior 
designer section of the examining board shall require a Wisconsin registered 
interior designer to complete at least 15 hours of continuing education during the 
per 2-year period immediately preceding the renewal date specified under s. 440.08 
(2) (a).  At least 10 of the 15 hours shall be in subjects related to the practice of 
interior design that safeguard the public [s health, safety, and welfare.
SECTION  2761 .  443.07 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
443.07 (6)  The renewal date for permits under this section is specified shall be 
as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), and the fee for renewal of 
such permits is determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2762 .  443.08 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
443.08 (3) (b)  The renewal date for certificates of authorization under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1567 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2762
section is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), 
and the fee for renewal of such certificates is determined by the department under 
s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2763 .  443.10 (2) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
443.10 (2) (e)  The renewal date dates for certificates of registration for 
architects, landscape architects, professional engineers, and Wisconsin registered 
interior designers is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 
440.08 (2) (a), and the fee for renewal of such certificates is determined by the 
department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2764 .  443.10 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
443.10 (5)  FEES; RENEWALS .  The professional land surveyor section shall 
grant a license to engage in the practice of professional land surveying to any 
applicant who has met the applicable requirements of this chapter.  The renewal 
date for the license is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 
440.08 (2) (a), and the renewal fee for the license is determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2765 .  445.06 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
445.06 (1)  The renewal date for a funeral director [s license is specified shall 
be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), and the renewal fee for 
such license is determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2766 .  445.07 (1) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2767 .  445.07 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
445.07 (2) (a)  The examining board may waive the requirement under sub. (1) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1568 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2767
(a) (3) (b) in cases where the examining board is satisfied that an applicant would be 
unable to satisfy the requirement prior to the renewal date by which the 
requirement must be satisfied.
(b)  Subsection (1) (a) (3) (b) does not apply to an applicant who was granted a 
reciprocal license under s. 445.08.
SECTION  2768 .  445.07 (3) of the statutes is renumbered 445.07 (3) (a) and 
amended to read:
445.07 (3) (a)  The examining board shall promulgate rules to implement this 
section establish continuing education requirements for an applicant licensed 
under this chapter.  The rules shall, except as required in par. (b) and sub. (2), 
require completion of 15 hours of continuing education per 2-year period.
SECTION  2769 .  445.07 (3) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
445.07 (3) (b)  The examining board shall establish separate continuing 
education requirements for new licensees.  The examining board shall specify 
permitted or required subjects for the continuing education under this paragraph, 
which shall be subjects that the examining board determines prepare a new 
licensee for practice as a funeral director.
SECTION  2770 .  445.095 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
445.095 (1) (c)  A certificate of apprenticeship issued under this section shall 
be renewable annually upon the payment on January 1 of each year of the renewal 
fee specified in s. 440.08 (2) (2o) (b).
SECTION  2771 .  445.105 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
445.105 (3)  Applications for funeral establishment permits shall be made on 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1569 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2771
forms provided by the department and filed with the department and shall be 
accompanied by the initial credential fee determined by the department under s. 
440.03 (9) (a).  The renewal date for a funeral establishment permit is specified 
shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), and the renewal 
fee for such permit is determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2772 .  446.02 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
446.02 (1) (b)  Submits evidence satisfactory to the examining board that the 
person meets the requirements of continuing education for license renewal as the 
examining board may require, which requirements shall include current proficiency 
in the use of an automated external defibrillator achieved through instruction 
provided by an individual, organization, or institution of higher education approved 
under s. 46.03 (38) to provide such instruction.  The person shall include the 
approval number assigned under sub. (5) (b) to each educational program completed 
by the person to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph.  During the time 
between initial licensure and commencement of a full 2-year licensure period The 
examining board shall, for up to a 2-year period, exempt new licensees shall not be 
required to meet continuing education requirements from the requirements under 
this paragraph.  Any person who has not engaged in the practice of chiropractic for 
2 years or more, while holding a valid license under this chapter, and desiring to 
engage in such practice, shall be required by the examining board to complete a 
continuing education course at a school of chiropractic approved by the examining 
board or pass a practical examination administered by the examining board or both.
SECTION  2773 .  446.02 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1570 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2773
446.02 (4)  The renewal date for all licenses granted by the examining board is 
specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), and the 
renewal fee for such licenses is determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) 
(a).
SECTION  2774 .  446.025 (3) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 446.025 (3) (a) 1. 
and amended to read:
446.025 (3) (a) 1.  The renewal date and fees for a certificate issued under this 
section are specified in shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 
(2) (a).
SECTION  2775 .  446.025 (3) (a) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
446.025 (3) (a) 2.  The renewal fees for a certificate issued under this section 
are determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2776 .  446.025 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
446.025 (3) (b)  A chiropractic radiological technician shall, at the time that he 
or she applies for renewal of a certificate under par. (a), submit evidence 
satisfactory to the examining board that he or she has completed at least 12 
continuing educational credit hours in programs established by rules promulgated 
by the examining board, which shall require at least 12 credit hours per 2-year 
period.
SECTION  2777 .  446.026 (3) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 446.026 (3) (a) 1. 
and amended to read:
446.026 (3) (a) 1.  The renewal date and fees for a certificate issued under this 
section are specified in shall be as determined under s. 440.08 (2) (a).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1571 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2778
SECTION  2778 .  446.026 (3) (a) 2. of the statutes is created to read:
446.026 (3) (a) 2.  The renewal fees for a certificate issued under this section 
are determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2779 .  446.026 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
446.026 (3) (b)  A chiropractic technician shall, at the time that he or she 
applies for renewal of a certificate under par. (a), submit evidence satisfactory to 
the examining board that he or she has completed at least 6  continuing educational 
credit hours in programs established by rules promulgated by the examining board, 
which shall require at least 6 credit hours per 2-year period.
SECTION  2780 .  447.05 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
447.05 (1) (a)  Except as provided in par. (b), renewal applications shall be 
submitted to the department on a form provided by the department on or before the 
applicable renewal date specified determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) 
(a) and shall include the applicable renewal fee determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2781 .  447.055 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
447.055 (1) (a) 1.  Except as provided in subs. (3) and (4), a person is not 
eligible for renewal of a license to practice dental hygiene, other than a permit 
issued under s. 447.02 (3), unless the person has taught, prepared, attended, or 
otherwise completed, during the 2-year period immediately preceding the renewal 
date specified under s. 440.08 (2) (a), 12 credit hours of satisfied the applicable 
continuing education relating to the clinical practice of dental hygiene that is 
sponsored or recognized by a local, state, regional, national, or international dental, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1572 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2781
dental hygiene, dental assisting, or medical-related professional organization. 
requirements established under subd. 2.
2.  Notwithstanding subd. 1., the The examining board may shall promulgate  
a rule rules requiring not more than 20 nor less than 12 credit hours of continuing 
education for eligibility for renewal of a license to practice dental hygiene to be 
taught, prepared, attended, or otherwise completed per 2-year period.  The rules 
shall require that continuing education be sponsored or recognized by a local, state, 
regional, national, or international dental, dental hygiene, dental assisting, or 
medical-related professional organization in order to qualify under this paragraph.
SECTION  2782 .  447.055 (1) (b) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
447.055 (1) (b) 1.  Basic life support or cardiopulmonary resuscitation.  Not 
more than 2 of the credit hours required under par. (a) per 2-year period may be 
satisfied by such training.
SECTION  2783 .  447.055 (1) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
447.055 (1) (b) 2.  Infection control.  Not less than 2 of the credit hours 
required under par. (a) per 2-year period must be satisfied by such training.
SECTION  2784 .  447.055 (3) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
447.055 (3)  The examining board shall, for up to a 2-year period, exempt new 
licensees from the requirements under this section.
SECTION  2785 .  447.056 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
447.056 (1) (intro.)  Except as provided in subs. (2) to and (4), a person is not 
eligible for renewal of a license to practice dentistry, other than a permit issued 
under s. 447.02 (3), unless the person has taught, attended, or otherwise completed, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1573 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2785
during the 2-year period immediately preceding the renewal date specified under s. 
440.08 (2) (a), 30 credit hours of satisfied the applicable continuing education 
related to the practice of dentistry or the practice of medicine, including 
requirements established under this subsection.  The examining board shall 
promulgate rules requiring 30 credit hours of continuing education to be taught, 
prepared, attended, or otherwise completed per 2-year period.  The rules shall 
require that not less than 25 credit hours of instruction per 2-year period be in 
clinical dentistry or clinical medicine.  Not The rules may not allow more than 4 of 
the 30 hours may per 2-year period to be from teaching.  Continuing education does 
not satisfy the requirements under this subsection unless the continuing education 
is one of the following:
SECTION  2786 .  447.056 (2) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
447.056 (2)  The examining board shall, for up to a 2-year period, exempt new 
licensees from the requirements under this section.
SECTION  2787 .  447.056 (3) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2788 .  447.058 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
447.058 (2) (b)  A mobile dentistry program registrant shall submit an 
application for renewal, and the applicable renewal fee determined by the 
department under s. 440.03 (9) (a), to the department on a form provided by the 
department on or before the applicable renewal date specified determined by the 
department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).
SECTION  2789 .  448.03 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.03 (2) (a)  Any person lawfully practicing within the scope of a license, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1574 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2789
permit, registration, certificate, or certification granted to practice midwifery 
under subch. XIII of ch. 440, to practice professional or, practical, or advanced 
practice registered nursing or nurse-midwifery under ch. 441, to practice 
chiropractic under ch. 446, to practice dentistry, dental therapy, or dental hygiene 
or as an expanded function dental auxiliary under ch. 447, to practice optometry 
under ch. 449, to practice as a physician assistant under subch. IX, to practice 
acupuncture under ch. 451 or under any other statutory provision, to practice 
naturopathic medicine under ch. 466, or as otherwise provided by statute.
SECTION  2790 .  448.035 (1) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2791 .  448.035 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.035 (2)  Notwithstanding the requirements of s. 448.30, a physician or 
certified advanced practice nurse prescriber may provide expedited partner 
therapy if the patient is diagnosed as infected with a chlamydial infection, 
gonorrhea, or trichomoniasis and the patient has had sexual contact with a sexual 
partner during which the chlamydial infection, gonorrhea, or trichomoniasis may 
have been transmitted to or from the sexual partner.  The physician or certified 
advanced practice nurse prescriber shall attempt to obtain the name of the patient [s 
sexual partner.  A prescription order for an antimicrobial drug prepared under this 
subsection shall include the name and address of the patient [s sexual partner, if 
known.  If the physician or certified advanced practice nurse prescriber is unable to 
obtain the name of the patient [s sexual partner, the prescription order shall 
include, in ordinary bold-faced capital letters, the words, Xexpedited partner 
therapyY or the letters XEPT.Y
SECTION  2792 .  448.035 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1575 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2792
448.035 (3)  The physician or certified advanced practice nurse prescriber 
shall provide the patient with a copy of the information sheet prepared by the 
department of health services under s. 46.03 (44) and shall request that the patient 
give the information sheet to the person with whom the patient had sexual contact.
SECTION  2793 .  448.035 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.035 (4) (a)  Except as provided in par. (b), a physician or certified 
advanced practice nurse prescriber is immune from civil liability for injury to or the 
death of a person who takes any antimicrobial drug if the antimicrobial drug is 
prescribed, dispensed, or furnished under this section and if expedited partner 
therapy is provided as specified under this section.
(b)  The immunity under par. (a) does not extend to the donation, distribution, 
furnishing, or dispensing of an antimicrobial drug by a physician or certified 
advanced practice nurse prescriber whose act or omission involves reckless, 
wanton, or intentional misconduct.
SECTION  2794 .  448.07 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.07 (1) (a)  Every person licensed or certified under this subchapter shall 
register on or before November 1 of each odd-numbered year following issuance of 
the license or certificate with the board on or before his or her renewal date 
determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2).  Registration shall be completed 
in such manner as the board shall designate and upon forms the board shall 
provide, except that registration with respect to a compact license shall be governed 
by the renewal provisions in s. 448.980 (7).  The secretary of the board, on or before 
October 1 of each odd-numbered year, shall mail or cause to be mailed to every 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1576 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2794
person required to register a registration form.  The board shall furnish to each 
person registered under this section a certificate of registration, and the person 
shall display the registration certificate conspicuously in the office at all times.  No 
person may exercise the rights or privileges conferred by any license or certificate 
granted by the board unless currently registered as required under this subsection.
SECTION  2795 .  448.13 (title) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
448.13  (title)  Continuing education and professional development.
SECTION  2796 .  448.13 (1) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
448.13 (1) (a) 1.  Continuing education programs or courses of study approved 
for at least 30 hours of credit required by the board within the 2 calendar years 
preceding the calendar year for which the registration is effective by rule under s. 
448.40 (2).
SECTION  2797 .  448.13 (1) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
448.13 (1) (a) 2.  Professional development and maintenance of certification or 
performance improvement or continuing medical education programs or courses of 
study required by the board by rule under s. 448.40 (1) and completed within the 2 
calendar years preceding the calendar year for which the registration is effective.
SECTION  2798 .  448.13 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.13 (1m)   The board shall, on a random basis, verify the accuracy of proof 
submitted by physicians under sub. (1) (a) and may, at any time during the 2 
calendar years specified in sub. (1) (a), require a physician to submit proof of any 
continuing education, professional development, and maintenance of certification 
or performance improvement or continuing medical education programs or courses 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1577 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2798
of study that he or she has attended and completed at that time during the 2 
calendar years since he or she last registered under s. 448.07.
SECTION  2799 .  448.40 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.40 (1)  The board may promulgate rules to carry out the purposes of this 
subchapter, including rules requiring the completion of continuing education, 
professional development, and maintenance of certification or performance 
improvement or continuing medical education programs for renewal of a license to 
practice medicine and surgery.
SECTION  2800 .  448.40 (2) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.40 (2) (e)  Establishing continuing education or continuing medical 
education requirements for renewal of a license to practice medicine and surgery 
under s. 448.13 (1).  The board shall require 30 hours of continuing education to be 
completed every 2-year period.  The examining board shall establish the criteria for 
the substitution of uncompensated hours of professional assistance volunteered to 
the department of health services for some or all of the hours of continuing 
education credits required under s. 448.13 (1) (a) 1. for physicians specializing in 
psychiatry.  The eligible substitution hours shall involve professional evaluation of 
community programs for the certification and recertification of community mental 
health programs, as defined in s. 51.01 (3n), by the department of health services.
SECTION  2801 .  448.55 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.55 (2)  The renewal dates for licenses granted under this subchapter, 
other than temporary licenses granted under rules promulgated under s. 448.53 (2), 
are specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1578 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2801
Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department on a form provided by 
the department and shall include the renewal fee determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a) and proof of compliance with the requirements established in 
any rules promulgated under sub. (3).
SECTION  2802 .  448.56 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.56 (1)  WRITTEN  REFERRAL .  Except as provided in this subsection and s. 
448.52, a person may practice physical therapy only upon the written referral of a 
physician, naturopathic doctor, physician assistant, chiropractor, dentist, 
podiatrist, or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber certified under s. 
441.16 (2).  Written referral is not required if a physical therapist provides services 
in schools to children with disabilities, as defined in s. 115.76 (5), pursuant to rules 
promulgated by the department of public instruction; provides services as part of a 
home health care agency; provides services to a patient in a nursing home pursuant 
to the patient [s plan of care; provides services related to athletic activities, 
conditioning, or injury prevention; or provides services to an individual for a 
previously diagnosed medical condition after informing the individual [s physician, 
naturopathic doctor, physician assistant, chiropractor, dentist, podiatrist, or 
advanced practice registered nurse prescriber certified under s. 441.16 (2) who 
made the diagnosis.  The examining board may promulgate rules establishing 
additional services that are excepted from the written referral requirements of this 
subsection.
SECTION  2803 .  448.56 (1m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.56 (1m)  (b)  The examining board shall promulgate rules establishing the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1579 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2803
requirements that a physical therapist must satisfy if a physician, naturopathic 
doctor, physician assistant, chiropractor, dentist, podiatrist, or advanced practice 
registered nurse prescriber makes a written referral under sub. (1).  The purpose of 
the rules shall be to ensure continuity of care between the physical therapist and 
the health care practitioner.
SECTION  2804 .  448.62 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.62 (2m)   An advanced practice registered nurse who is certified to issue 
prescription orders under s. 441.16 and who is providing nonsurgical patient 
services as directed, supervised, and inspected by a podiatrist who has the power to 
direct, decide, and oversee the implementation of the patient services rendered.
SECTION  2805 .  448.65 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.65 (2) (intro.)  The renewal date for a license granted under this 
subchapter, other than a temporary license granted under rules promulgated under 
s. 448.63 (3), is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 
(2) (a).  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department on a form 
provided by the department and shall be accompanied by all of the following:
SECTION  2806 .  448.665 of the statutes is amended to read:
448.665   Continuing education.   The affiliated credentialing board shall 
promulgate rules establishing requirements and procedures for licensees to 
complete continuing education programs or courses of study in order to qualify for 
renewal of a license granted under this subchapter.  The rules shall require a 
licensee to complete at least 30 hours of continuing education programs or courses 
of study within each per 2-year period immediately preceding the renewal date 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1580 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2806
specified under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  The affiliated credentialing board may waive all or 
part of these requirements for the completion of continuing education programs or 
courses of study if the affiliated credentialing board determines that prolonged 
illness, disability or other exceptional circumstances have prevented a licensee from 
completing the requirements.
SECTION  2807 .  448.67 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.67 (2)  SEPARATE  BILLING  REQUIRED .  Except as provided in sub. (4), a 
licensee who renders any podiatric service or assistance, or gives any podiatric 
advice or any similar advice or assistance, to any patient, podiatrist, physician, 
physician assistant, advanced practice registered nurse prescriber certified under 
s. 441.16 (2), partnership, or corporation, or to any other institution or organization, 
including a hospital, for which a charge is made to a patient, shall, except as 
authorized by Title 18 or Title 19 of the federal Social Security Act, render an 
individual statement or account of the charge directly to the patient, distinct and 
separate from any statement or account by any other podiatrist, physician, 
physician assistant, advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, or other person.
SECTION  2808 .  448.86 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.86 (2)  The renewal dates for certificates granted under this subchapter, 
other than temporary certificates granted under s. 448.80, are specified shall be as 
determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  Renewal applications shall 
be submitted to the department on a form provided by the department and shall 
include the renewal fee determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2809 .  448.9545 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1581 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2809
448.9545 (1) (a)  To be eligible for renewal of a license issued under s. 448.953 
(1) or (2), a licensee shall, during the 2-year period immediately preceding the 
renewal date specified under s. 440.08 (2) (a), complete not less than 30 credit hours 
of continuing education in courses of study approved by the affiliated credentialing 
board.  The examining board shall promulgate rules to establish the continuing 
education requirements under this section.  The rules shall require completion of 
not less than 30 credit hours of continuing education per 2-year period.
SECTION  2810 .  448.9545 (1) (b) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.9545 (1) (b) (intro.)  No more than 10 credit hours of the continuing 
education required under par. (a) per 2-year period may be on any of the following 
subject areas or combination of subject areas:
SECTION  2811 .  448.955 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.955 (1)  The renewal dates for licenses granted under this subchapter are 
specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).
SECTION  2812 .  448.955 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.955 (2) (a)  Completed, during the 2-year period immediately preceding 
the renewal date specified in s. 440.08 (2) (a), the applicable continuing education 
requirements specified in established under s. 448.9545.
SECTION  2813 .  448.955 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.955 (3) (a)  A place for the licensee to describe his or her work history, 
including the average number of hours worked each week, for the  2-year period 
immediately preceding the renewal date specified in determined by the department 
under s. 440.08 (2) (a).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1582 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2814
SECTION  2814 .  448.956 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.956 (1) (c)  A protocol established under par. (a) shall be updated no later 
than 30 days before the licensee [s renewal date specified in s. 440.08 (2) (a) 14f.
SECTION  2815 .  448.956 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.956 (1m)   Subject to sub. (1) (a), a licensee may provide athletic training to 
an individual without a referral, except that a licensee may not provide athletic 
training as described under s. 448.95 (5) (d) or (e) in an outpatient rehabilitation 
setting unless the licensee has obtained a written referral for the individual from a 
practitioner licensed or certified under subch. II, III, IV, V, or VII of this chapter; 
under ch. 446; or under s. 441.16 (2) 441.09 or from a practitioner who holds a 
compact privilege under subch. XI or XII of ch. 448.
SECTION  2816 .  448.967 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.967 (2)  The renewal dates for licenses granted under this subchapter are 
specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  Renewal 
applications shall be submitted to the department on a form provided by the 
department and shall include the renewal fee determined by the department under 
s. 440.03 (9) (a) and a statement attesting compliance with the continuing 
education requirements established in rules promulgated under s. 448.965 (1) (b).
SECTION  2817 .  448.9703 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.9703 (3) (a)  Successfully completed at least 30 hours of applicable 
continuing education in the prior 2-year period requirements established under this 
paragraph.  The rules promulgated under this paragraph shall require at least 30 
hours of continuing education per 2-year period.  The board may provide for an 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1583 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2817
exemption from or a reduction of the requirement under this paragraph for new 
licensees, as the board determines is appropriate.
SECTION  2818 .  448.9706 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.9706 (2)  Except as provided in s. 448.9705, the renewal dates for licenses 
granted under this subchapter are specified determined by the department under s. 
440.08 (2) (a).  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department on a 
form provided by the department, and shall include the renewal fee specified in s. 
440.08 (2) (a) determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a) and proof of 
compliance with the requirements established by rules promulgated by the board 
under s. 448.9703 (3).
SECTION  2819 .  448.974 (2) (am) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
448.974 (2) (am) 1.  The renewal date for a license issued under this 
subchapter is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 
(2) (a), and the renewal fees for such licenses are determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).  Renewal of a license is subject to subd. 2.
SECTION  2820 .  448.981 (6) of the statutes is amended to read:
448.981 (6)  The payment of assessments for the interstate medical licensure 
compact under s. 448.980 (13) (a) shall be made from the appropriation account 
under s. 20.165 (1) (hg) (g) using the licensure fees paid by physicians licensed 
under the compact.  No fees from physicians that have not applied for licensure 
through the compact shall be used to pay Wisconsin [s annual assessment pursuant 
to s. 448.980 (13) (a) without the approval of the joint committee on finance.
SECTION  2821 .  449.06 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
449.06 (1)  Persons practicing optometry shall, on or before the applicable 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1584 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2821
renewal date specified determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), 
register with, submit a renewal application to the department, pay the applicable 
renewal fee determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a), and provide 
evidence satisfactory to the examining board that he or she has complied with the 
rules promulgated under sub. (2m).
SECTION  2822 .  449.06 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
449.06 (2m)   The examining board shall promulgate rules requiring a person 
who is issued a license to practice optometry to complete, during the 2-year period 
immediately preceding the renewal date specified in s. 440.08 (2) (a), satisfy 
continuing education requirements.  The rules shall require the completion of not 
less than 30 hours of continuing education per 2-year period.  The rules shall 
include requirements that apply only to optometrists who are allowed to use topical 
ocular diagnostic pharmaceutical agents under s. 449.17 or who are allowed to use 
therapeutic pharmaceutical agents or remove foreign bodies from an eye or from an 
appendage to the eye under s. 449.18.
SECTION  2823 .  450.01 (1m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2824 .  450.01 (16) (h) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
450.01 (16) (h) 2.  The patient [s advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, 
if the advanced practice registered nurse prescriber has entered into a written 
agreement to collaborate with a physician may issue prescription orders under s. 
441.09 (2).
SECTION  2825 .  450.01 (16) (hr) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1585 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2825
450.01 (16) (hr) 2.  An advanced practice registered nurse prescriber who may 
issue prescription orders under s. 441.09 (2).
SECTION  2826 .  450.03 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
450.03 (1) (e)  Any person lawfully practicing within the scope of a license, 
permit, registration, certificate, or certification granted to practice as a pharmacy 
technician under s. 450.068, to provide home medical oxygen under s. 450.076, to 
practice professional or, practical, or advanced practice registered nursing or nurse-
midwifery under ch. 441, to practice dentistry, dental therapy, or dental hygiene or 
as an expanded function dental auxiliary under ch. 447, to practice medicine and 
surgery under ch. 448, to practice optometry under ch. 449, to practice naturopathic 
medicine under ch. 466, or to practice veterinary medicine under ch. 89, or as 
otherwise provided by statute.
SECTION  2827 .  450.08 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
450.08 (1)  The renewal dates for all licenses and registrations granted by the 
board are specified determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  Except as 
provided under sub. (2) (a), only a holder of an unexpired license or registration may 
engage in his or her licensed activity.
SECTION  2828 .  450.08 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
450.08 (2) (a)  A pharmacist [s license may be renewed by complying with 
continuing education requirements under s. 450.085 and paying the applicable fee 
determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a) on or before the applicable 
renewal date specified determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  
Notwithstanding s. 440.08 (3) (a), if a pharmacist fails to obtain renewal by that 
date, the board may suspend the pharmacist [s license, and the board may require 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1586 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2828
the pharmacist to pass an examination to the satisfaction of the board to restore 
that license.
SECTION  2829 .  450.08 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
450.08 (2) (b)  A pharmacy, pharmacy technician [s, manufacturer [s, 
distributor [s, or home medical oxygen provider [s license or registration may be 
renewed by paying the applicable fee determined by the department under s. 440.03 
(9) (a) on or before the applicable renewal date specified determined by the 
department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).
SECTION  2830 .  450.085 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
450.085 (1)  An applicant for renewal of a license under s. 450.08 (2) (a) shall 
submit proof that he or she has completed, within the 2-year period immediately 
preceding the date of his or her application, satisfied the applicable continuing 
education requirements established by the board under this subsection.  The board 
shall require the completion of 30 hours of continuing education per 2-year period in 
courses conducted by a provider that is approved by the Accreditation Council for 
Pharmacy Education or in courses approved by the board.  Courses specified in s. 
450.035 (1r) and (2) are courses in continuing education for purposes of this 
subsection.  This subsection does not apply to an applicant for renewal of a license 
that expires on the first renewal date after the date on which the board initially 
granted the license The board shall, for up to a 2-year period, exempt new licensees 
from the requirements under this subsection.
SECTION  2831 .  450.11 (1g) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
450.11 (1g) (b)  A pharmacist may, upon the prescription order of a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1587 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2831
practitioner providing expedited partner therapy, as specified in s. 441.092, 
448.035, or 448.9725, that complies with the requirements of sub. (1), dispense an 
antimicrobial drug as a course of therapy for treatment of chlamydial infections, 
gonorrhea, or trichomoniasis to the practitioner [s patient or a person with whom 
the patient has had sexual contact for use by the person with whom the patient has 
had sexual contact.  The pharmacist shall provide a consultation in accordance with 
rules promulgated by the board for the dispensing of a prescription to the person to 
whom the antimicrobial drug is dispensed.  A pharmacist providing a consultation 
under this paragraph shall ask whether the person for whom the antimicrobial 
drug has been prescribed is allergic to the antimicrobial drug and advise that the 
person for whom the antimicrobial drug has been prescribed must discontinue use 
of the antimicrobial drug if the person is allergic to or develops signs of an allergic 
reaction to the antimicrobial drug.
SECTION  2832 .  450.11 (1i) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
450.11 (1i) (a) 1.  A pharmacist may, upon and in accordance with the 
prescription order of an advanced practice registered nurse prescriber under s. 
441.18 (2) (a) 1., of a physician under s. 448.037 (2) (a) 1., or of a physician assistant 
under s. 448.9727 (2) (a) 1. that complies with the requirements of sub. (1), deliver 
an opioid antagonist to a person specified in the prescription order and may, upon 
and in accordance with the standing order of an advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber under s. 441.18 (2) (a) 2., of a physician under s. 448.037 (2) (a) 2., or of a 
physician assistant under s. 448.9727 (2) (a) 2. that complies with the requirements 
of sub. (1), deliver an opioid antagonist to an individual in accordance with the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1588 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2832
order.  The pharmacist shall provide a consultation in accordance with rules 
promulgated by the board for the delivery of a prescription to the person to whom 
the opioid antagonist is delivered.
SECTION  2833 .  450.11 (1i) (b) 2. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
450.11 (1i) (b) 2. b.  An advanced practice registered nurse prescriber may only 
deliver or dispense an opioid antagonist in accordance with s. 441.18 (2) or in 
accordance with his or her other legal authority to dispense prescription drugs.
SECTION  2834 .  450.11 (7) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
450.11 (7) (b)  Information communicated to a physician, physician assistant, 
or advanced practice registered nurse prescriber in an effort to procure unlawfully 
a prescription drug or the administration of a prescription drug is not a privileged 
communication.
SECTION  2835 .  450.11 (8) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
450.11 (8) (e)  The board of nursing, insofar as this section applies to advanced 
practice nurse prescribers registered nurses.
SECTION  2836 .  450.13 (5) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
450.13 (5) (b)  The patient [s advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, if 
the advanced practice registered nurse prescriber has entered into a written 
agreement to collaborate with a physician may issue prescription orders under s. 
441.09 (2).
SECTION  2837 .  450.135 (7) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
450.135 (7) (b)  The patient [s advanced practice registered nurse prescriber, if 
the advanced practice registered nurse prescriber has entered into a written 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1589 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2837
agreement to collaborate with a physician may issue prescription orders under s. 
441.09 (2).
SECTION  2838 .  451.04 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
451.04 (4)  E XPIRATION  AND RENEWAL .  Renewal applications shall be 
submitted to the department on a form provided by the department on or before the 
applicable renewal date specified determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) 
(a) and shall include the applicable renewal fee determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2839 .  452.10 (2) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2840 .  452.12 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
452.12 (1)  EXPIRATION .  A license granted by the board entitles the holder to 
act as a broker or salesperson, as the case may be, until the applicable renewal date 
specified under s. 440.08 (2) (a).
SECTION  2841 .  452.12 (5) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
452.12 (5) (a)  Renewal applications for all licenses shall be submitted with 
the applicable renewal fee determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a) on 
or before the applicable renewal date specified determined by the department 
under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  The department shall pay $10 of each renewal fee received 
under this paragraph to the Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System 
for research and educational, public outreach, and grant activities under s. 36.25 
(34).
SECTION  2842 .  452.132 (2) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
452.132 (2) (c)  Before a licensee becomes associated with the firm and at the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1590 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2842
beginning of each biennial licensure period, ensure that the licensee holds a valid 
license.
SECTION  2843 .  452.14 (3) (n) of the statutes is amended to read:
452.14 (3) (n)  Treated any person unequally solely because of sex, race, color, 
handicap, national origin, ancestry, marital status, lawful source of income, status 
as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r), or status as a victim of 
domestic abuse, sexual assault, or stalking, as defined in s. 106.50 (1m) (u).
SECTION  2844 .  454.06 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
454.06 (8)  EXPIRATION  AND RENEWAL .  The renewal date for licenses issued 
under subs. (2) to (6) is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 
440.08 (2) (a), and the renewal fees for such licenses are determined by the 
department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).  The examining board may not renew a license 
issued to a person under subs. (2) to (6) unless the person certifies to the examining 
board that the person has reviewed the current digest under s. 454.125.
SECTION  2845 .  454.08 (9) of the statutes is amended to read:
454.08 (9)  The renewal date for licenses issued under this section is specified 
shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), and the renewal 
fee for such licenses is determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2846 .  454.23 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
454.23 (5)  EXPIRATION  AND RENEWAL .  The renewal date for a license granted 
under sub. (2) is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 
(2) (a), and the renewal fee for that license is determined by the department under 
s. 440.03 (9) (a).  The department may not renew a license granted to a person 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1591 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2846
under this section unless the person certifies to the department that the person has 
reviewed the current digest under s. 454.267.
SECTION  2847 .  454.25 (9) of the statutes is amended to read:
454.25 (9)  The renewal date for a barbering establishment license is specified 
shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), and the renewal 
fee for a barbering establishment license is determined by the department under s. 
440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2848 .  455.06 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
455.06 (1) (a)  Except as provided in par. (b), the renewal dates for licenses 
issued under this subchapter or under s. 455.04 (4), 2019 stats., are specified shall 
be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), and the renewal fee for 
such licenses is determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2849 .  455.06 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
455.06 (1) (b)  A license issued under s. 455.04 (2) is valid for 2 years or until 
the individual obtains a license under s. 455.04 (1) and may not be renewed, except 
that the examining board may promulgate rules specifying circumstances in which 
the examining board, in cases of hardship, may allow an individual to renew a 
license issued under s. 455.04 (2).  Notwithstanding sub. (2), an individual holding 
a license issued under s. 455.04 (2) is not required to complete continuing education 
the examining board shall, for up to a 2-year period, exempt new licensees from the 
requirements under sub. (2).
SECTION  2850 .  455.065 (7) of the statutes is amended to read:
455.065 (7)  Grant an exemption from the continuing education requirements 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1592 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2850
under this section to a psychologist who certifies to the examining board that he or 
she has permanently retired from the practice of psychology.  A psychologist who 
has been granted an exemption under this subsection may not return to active 
practice without submitting evidence satisfactory to the examining board of having 
completed the required continuing education credits within the  2-year period 
specified by the board prior to the return to the practice of psychology.
SECTION  2851 .  456.07 (title) of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
456.07  (title)  Renewal.
SECTION  2852 .  456.07 (1) and (3) of the statutes are repealed.
SECTION  2853 .  456.07 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
456.07 (2)  The application for a new certificate of registration The renewal 
date for a license issued under this subchapter shall be as determined by the 
department under s. 440.08 (2).  A renewal application shall include the applicable 
renewal fee determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a), a report of any 
facts requested by the examining board on forms provided for such purpose, and 
evidence satisfactory to the examining board that during the biennial period 
immediately preceding application for registration the applicant has attended a 
continuing education program or course of study.  During the time between initial 
licensure and commencement of a full 2-year licensure period, new licensees shall 
not be required to meet continuing education requirements.  All registration fees 
are payable on or before the applicable renewal date specified under s. 440.08 (2) (a) 
The examining board shall, for up to a 2-year period, exempt new licensees from the 
continuing education requirements under this subsection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1593 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2854
SECTION  2854 .  456.07 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
456.07 (5)  Only an individual who has qualified as a  is licensed and 
registered as a nursing home administrator under this chapter and who holds a 
valid current registration certificate under this section for the current registration 
period may use the title XNursing Home Administrator Y, and the abbreviation 
XN.H.A.Y after the person [s name.  No other person may use or be designated by 
such title or such abbreviation or any other words, letters, sign, card or device 
tending to or intended to indicate that the person is a licensed and registered 
nursing home administrator.
SECTION  2855 .  457.20 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
457.20 (2)  The renewal dates for certificates and licenses granted under this 
subchapter, other than training certificates and licenses or temporary certificates 
or licenses, are specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 
(2) (a).
SECTION  2856 .  457.22 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
457.22 (2)  The rules promulgated under sub. (1) may not require an 
individual to complete more than 30 hours of continuing education programs or 
courses of study in order to qualify for renewal per 2-year period.  The appropriate 
section of the examining board may waive all or part of the requirements 
established in rules promulgated under this section if it determines that prolonged 
illness, disability, or other exceptional circumstances have prevented the individual 
from completing the requirements.
SECTION  2857 .  458.085 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1594 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2857
458.085 (3)  Continuing education requirements for renewal of certificates 
issued individuals certified under this subchapter.
SECTION  2858 .  458.09 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
458.09 (3)  The number of hours of attendance at and completion of continuing 
education programs or courses of study required under the rules promulgated 
under s. 458.085 (3) shall be reduced by one hour for each hour of attendance at and 
completion of, within the  2 years immediately preceding the date on which the 
renewal application is submitted current reporting period, continuing education 
programs or courses of study that the applicant has attended and completed in 
order to continue to qualify for employment as an assessor and that the department 
determines is substantially equivalent to attendance at and completion of 
continuing education programs or courses of study for certified general appraisers, 
certified residential appraisers or licensed appraisers, as appropriate.
SECTION  2859 .  458.11 of the statutes is amended to read:
458.11   Expiration and renewal.   Renewal applications shall be submitted 
to the department on a form provided by the department on or before the applicable 
renewal date specified determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a) and 
shall include the applicable renewal fee determined by the department under s. 
440.03 (9) (a).  Renewal of an appraiser certificate automatically renews the 
individual [s appraiser license without payment of the renewal fee for the appraiser 
license or completion of any additional continuing education requirements that 
would otherwise be required for renewal of the appraiser license.  Renewal 
applications shall be accompanied by proof of completion of the continuing 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1595 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2859
education requirements in s. 458.13.  Notwithstanding s. 458.06 (3) (b) 2. and (4) (b) 
2., 1989 stats., and s. 458.08 (3) (b) 2. and (c) 2., 1991 stats., the department may not 
renew a certificate that was granted under s. 458.06 (3) or (4) before May 29, 1993, 
unless the holder of the certificate submits evidence satisfactory to the department 
that he or she has successfully completed the applicable educational requirements 
specified in rules promulgated under s. 458.085 (1) and the department may not 
renew a certificate that was granted under s. 458.08 (3) before May 29, 1993, unless 
the holder of the certificate submits evidence satisfactory to the department that he 
or she has successfully completed the applicable education and experience 
requirements specified in rules promulgated under s. 458.085 (1) and (2).
SECTION  2860 .  458.13 of the statutes is amended to read:
458.13   Continuing education requirements.   At the time of renewal of a 
certificate issued under this subchapter, each applicant shall submit proof that, 
within the 2 years immediately preceding the date on which the renewal application 
is submitted, he or she has satisfied the continuing education requirements 
specified in the rules promulgated under s. 458.085 (3).
SECTION  2861 .  458.33 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
458.33 (5)  R ENEWALS .  A licensed appraisal management company shall 
submit a renewal application, along with the applicable renewal fee determined by 
the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a), but not to exceed $2,000, to the department 
on a form prescribed by the department by the applicable renewal date specified 
determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  A renewal under this 
subsection is subject to sub. (4).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1596 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2862
SECTION  2862 .  459.09 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
459.09 (1) (intro.)  Each person issued a license under this subchapter shall, 
on or before the applicable renewal date specified determined by the department 
under s. 440.08 (2) (a), do all of the following:
SECTION  2863 .  459.09 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
459.09 (1) (b)  Submit with the renewal application proof that he or she 
completed, within the 2 years immediately preceding the date of his or her 
application, 20 hours of satisfied applicable continuing education programs or 
courses of study approved or required under requirements specified in rules 
promulgated under s. 459.095.  This paragraph does not apply to an applicant for 
renewal of a license that expires on the first renewal date after the date on which 
the examining board initially granted the license.
SECTION  2864 .  459.095 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
459.095 (1)  Promulgate rules establishing continuing education requirements 
for individuals licensed under s. 459.09.  The rules shall require the completion of 
20 hours per 2-year period in programs or courses of study approved under this 
subsection.  The rules shall establish the criteria for approval of continuing 
education programs or courses of study required for renewal of a license under s. 
459.09 and for approval of the sponsors and cosponsors of continuing education 
programs or courses of study.   The examining board shall, for up to a 2-year period, 
exempt new licensees from the requirements under this section.
SECTION  2865 .  459.24 (5) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
459.24 (5)  EXPIRATION  AND RENEWAL .  (intro.)  The renewal dates for licenses 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1597 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2865
granted under this subchapter, other than temporary licenses granted under sub. 
(6), are specified in shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) 
(a).  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department on a form provided 
by the department and shall include all of the following:
SECTION  2866 .  459.24 (5) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
459.24 (5) (b)  Proof that the applicant completed, within the 2 years 
immediately preceding the date of his or her application, 20 hours of satisfied 
continuing education programs or courses of study approved or required under 
requirements specified in rules promulgated under sub. (5m).  This paragraph does 
not apply to an applicant for renewal of a license that expires on the first renewal 
date after the date on which the examining board initially granted the license.
SECTION  2867 .  459.24 (5m) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
459.24 (5m)  (a) 1.  Promulgate rules establishing continuing education 
requirements for individuals licensed under this subchapter.  The rules shall 
require the completion of 20 hours in programs or courses of study approved under 
this subsection.  The examining board shall, for up to a 2-year period, exempt new 
licensees from the requirements under this subdivision.  The rules shall establish 
the criteria for approval of continuing education programs or courses of study 
required for renewal of a license under sub. (5) and the criteria for approval of the 
sponsors and cosponsors of continuing education programs or courses of study.
SECTION  2868 .  460.07 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
460.07 (2) (intro.)  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department 
on a form provided by the department on or before the applicable renewal date 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1598 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2868
specified determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a) and shall include all 
of the following:
SECTION  2869 .  460.10 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
460.10 (1) (a)  Requirements and procedures for a license holder to complete 
continuing education programs or courses of study to qualify for renewal of his or 
her license.  The rules promulgated under this paragraph may not require a license 
holder to complete more than 24 hours of continuing education programs or courses 
of study in order to qualify for renewal of his or her license per 2-year period.
SECTION  2870 .  462.04 of the statutes is amended to read:
462.04   Prescription or order required.   A person who holds a license or 
limited X-ray machine operator permit under this chapter may not use diagnostic 
X-ray equipment on humans for diagnostic purposes unless authorized to do so by 
prescription or order of a physician licensed under s. 448.04 (1) (a), a naturopathic 
doctor licensed under s. 466.04 (1), a dentist who is licensed under s. 447.04 (1) or 
who holds a compact privilege under subch. II of ch. 447, a dental therapist licensed 
under s. 447.04 (1m), a podiatrist licensed under s. 448.63, a chiropractor licensed 
under s. 446.02, an advanced practice registered nurse certified licensed under s. 
441.16 (2) 441.09, a physician assistant who is licensed under s. 448.974 or who 
holds a compact privilege under subch. XIII of ch. 448, or, subject to s. 448.56 (7) (a), 
a physical therapist who is licensed under s. 448.53 or who holds a compact 
privilege under subch. XI of ch. 448.
SECTION  2871 .  462.05 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
462.05 (1)  The renewal date for licenses and limited X-ray machine operator 
permits granted under this chapter is specified in shall be as determined by the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1599 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2871
department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the 
department on a form provided by the department and shall include the renewal fee 
determined by the department under s. 440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2872 .  466.04 (3) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
466.04 (3) (a) (intro.)  The renewal date for licenses granted under this chapter 
is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a).  
Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department on a form provided by 
the department.  The application shall include all of the following in order for the 
license to be renewed:
SECTION  2873 .  470.045 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
470.045 (3) (b)  The renewal date for certificates of authorization under this 
section is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), 
and the renewal fee for such certificates is determined by the department under s. 
440.03 (9) (a).
SECTION  2874 .  470.07 of the statutes is amended to read:
470.07   Renewal of licenses.   The renewal dates for licenses granted under 
this chapter are specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 
(2) (a).  Renewal applications shall be submitted to the department on a form 
provided by the department and shall include the renewal fee determined by the 
department under s. 440.03 (9) (a) and evidence satisfactory to the appropriate 
section of the examining board that the applicant has completed any continuing 
education requirements specified in rules promulgated under s. 470.03 (2).
SECTION  2875 .  480.08 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1600 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2875
480.08 (5)  E XPIRATION  AND RENEWAL .  The renewal date for certificates 
granted under this chapter, other than temporary certificates granted under sub. 
(7), is specified shall be as determined by the department under s. 440.08 (2) (a), 
and the renewal fee for certificates granted under this chapter, other than 
temporary certificates granted under sub. (7), is determined by the department 
under s. 440.03 (9) (a).  Renewal applications shall include evidence satisfactory to 
the department that the applicant holds a current permit issued under s. 77.52 (9).  
A renewal application for an auctioneer certificate shall be accompanied by proof of 
completion of continuing education requirements under sub. (6).
SECTION  2876 .  563.13 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
563.13 (4)  A $10 $20 license fee for each bingo occasion proposed to be 
conducted and $5 $10 for an annual license for the designated member responsible 
for the proper utilization of gross receipts.  All moneys received under this 
subsection shall be credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.505 (8) (jn).
SECTION  2877 .  563.135 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
563.135 (1) (intro.)  An application for a license to conduct bingo for an 
organization listed under s. 563.11 (1) (b) to (d) shall be accompanied by a $5 $10 
license fee and a sworn statement by the owner or operator of the organization that 
all of the following rules shall apply to bingo conducted by the organization:
SECTION  2878 .  563.80 (1) (intro.) and (b) of the statutes are consolidated, 
renumbered 563.80 (1) and amended to read:
563.80 (1)  An occupational tax is imposed on those gross receipts of any 
licensed organization which are derived from the conduct of bingo, in the following 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1601 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2878
amounts: (b)  Two amount of 2 percent of the gross receipts received by a licensed 
organization during a year that exceed $30,000.
SECTION  2879 .  563.80 (1) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2880 .  563.92 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
563.92 (2)  The fee for a raffle license shall be $25 $50 and shall be remitted 
with the application.  A raffle license shall be valid for 12 months and may be 
renewed as provided in s. 563.98 (1g).  The department shall issue the license 
within 30 days after the filing of a complete application if the applicant qualifies 
under s. 563.907 and has not exceeded the limits of s. 563.91.  The department shall 
notify the applicant within 15 days after it is filed if the raffle license application is 
incomplete or the application shall be considered complete.  A complete license 
application that is not denied within 30 days after its filing shall be considered 
approved.  All moneys received by the department under this subsection shall be 
credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.505 (8) (jn).
SECTION  2881 .  601.25 of the statutes is created to read:
601.25   Office of the public intervenor.   (1)  The office of the public 
intervenor shall assist individuals with insurance claims, policies, appeals, and 
other legal actions to pursue insurance coverage for medical procedures, 
prescription medications, and other health care services.
(2)  The office of the public intervenor may levy an assessment on each insurer 
that is authorized to engage in the business of insurance in this state.  The 
assessment levied under this subsection shall be based on the insurer [s premium 
volume for disability insurance policies, as defined in s. 632.895 (1) (a), written in 
this state.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1602 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2881
(3)  The commissioner may provide by rule for the governance, duties, and 
administration of the office of the public intervenor.
SECTION  2882 .  601.31 (1) (mv) of the statutes is created to read:
601.31 (1) (mv)  For initial issuance or renewal of a license as a pharmacy 
benefit management broker or consultant under s. 628.495, amounts set by the 
commissioner by rule.
SECTION  2883 .  601.31 (1) (nv) of the statutes is created to read:
601.31 (1) (nv)  For issuing or renewing a license as a pharmaceutical 
representative under s. 632.863, an amount to be set by the commissioner by rule.
SECTION  2884 .  601.31 (1) (nw) of the statutes is created to read:
601.31 (1) (nw)  For issuing or renewing a license as a pharmacy services 
administrative organization under s. 632.864, an amount to be set by the 
commissioner by rule.
SECTION  2885 .  601.41 (14) of the statutes is created to read:
601.41 (14)  VALUE -BASED  DIABETES  MEDICATION  PILOT  PROJECT .  The 
commissioner shall develop a pilot project to direct a pharmacy benefit manager, as 
defined in s. 632.865 (1) (c), and a pharmaceutical manufacturer to create a value-
based, sole-source arrangement to reduce the costs of prescription medication used 
to treat diabetes.  The commissioner may promulgate rules to implement this 
subsection.
SECTION  2886 .  601.45 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
601.45 (1)  C OSTS  TO BE PAID BY EXAMINEES .  The reasonable costs of 
examinations and audits under ss. 601.43, 601.44, 601.455, and 601.83 (5) (f) shall 
be paid by examinees except as provided in sub. (4), either on the basis of a system 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1603 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2886
of billing for actual salaries and expenses of examiners and other apportionable 
expenses, including office overhead, or by a system of regular annual billings to 
cover the costs relating to a group of companies, or a combination of such systems, 
as the commissioner may by rule prescribe.  Additional funding, if any, shall be 
governed by s. 601.32.  The commissioner shall schedule annual hearings under s. 
601.41 (5) to review current problems in the area of examinations.
SECTION  2887 .  601.455 of the statutes is created to read:
601.455   Fair claims processing, health insurance transparency, and 
claim denial rate audits.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XClaim denial Y means the refusal by an insurer to provide payment under 
a disability insurance policy for a service, treatment, or medication recommended 
by a health care provider.  XClaim denial Y includes the prospective refusal to pay for 
a service, treatment, or medication when a disability insurance policy requires 
advance approval before a prescribed medical service, treatment, or medication is 
provided.
(b)  XDisability insurance policy Y has the meaning given in s. 632.895 (1) (a).
(c)  XHealth care provider Y has the meaning given in s. 146.81 (1) (a) to (p).
(2)  CLAIMS  PROCESSING .  (a)  Insurers shall process each claim for a disability 
insurance policy within a time frame that is reasonable and prevents an undue 
delay in an insured [s care, taking into account the medical urgency of the claim.
(b)  If an insurer determines additional information is needed to process a 
claim for a disability insurance policy, the insurer shall request the information 
from the insured within 5 business days of making the determination and shall 
provide at least 15 days for the insured to respond.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1604 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2887
(c)  All claim denials shall include all of the following:
1.  A specific and detailed explanation of the reason for the denial that cites 
the exact medical or policy basis for the denial.
2.  A copy of or a publicly accessible link to any policy, coverage rules, clinical 
guidelines, or medical evidence relied upon in making the denial decision, with 
specific citation to the provision justifying the denial.
3.  Additional documentation, medical rationale, or criteria that must be met 
or provided for approval of the claim, including alternative options available under 
the policy.
(d)  If an insurer uses artificial intelligence or algorithmic decision-making in 
processing a claim for a disability insurance policy, the insurer must notify the 
insured in writing of that fact.  The notice shall include all of the following:
1.  A disclosure that artificial intelligence or algorithmic decision-making was 
used at any stage in reviewing the claim, even if a human later reviewed the 
outcome.
2.  A detailed explanation of how the artificial intelligence or algorithmic 
decision-making reached its decision, including any factors the artificial 
intelligence or algorithmic decision-making weighed.
3.  A contact point for requesting a human review of the claim if the claim was 
denied.
(3)  INDEPENDENT  REVIEW  OF DENIALS .  In addition to an insured [s right to an 
independent review under s. 632.835, as applicable, insureds have the right to 
request a review by the office of the public intervenor of any claim denial.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1605 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2887
(4)  PROHIBITED  PRACTICES .  An insurer may not do any of the following with 
respect to a disability insurance policy:
(a)  Use vague or misleading policy terms to justify a claim denial.
(b)  Fail to provide a specific and comprehensible reason for a claim denial.
(c)  Cancel coverage under the policy after a claim is submitted due to alleged 
misstatements on the policy application.
(d)  Deny a claim based on hidden or ambiguous exclusions in a disability 
insurance policy.
(e)  Stall review of a claim to avoid timely payment.
(f)  Reject a claim without reviewing all relevant medical records or consulting 
qualified experts.
(g)  Fail to properly review or respond to an insured [s appeal in a timely 
manner.
(h)  Allow non-physician personnel to determine whether care is medically 
necessary.
(i)  Apply different medical necessity criteria based on financial interests 
rather than patient needs.
(j)  Disregard a treating health care provider [s medical assessment without a 
valid clinical reason.
(k)  Mandate prior approval for routine or urgent procedures in a manner that 
causes harmful delays.
(L)  For a disability insurance policy that provides coverage of emergency 
medical services, refuse to cover emergency medical services provided by out-of-
network providers.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1606 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2887
(m)  List a health care provider as in-network on a provider directory and then 
deny a claim by stating the health care provider is out-of-network.
(n)  Deny coverage based on age, gender, disability, or a chronic condition 
rather than medical necessity.
(o)  Apply stricter standards in reviewing claims related to mental health 
conditions than claims related to physical health conditions.
(p)  Perform a blanket denial of claims for high-cost conditions without an 
individualized review of each claim.
(r)  Reclassify a claim to a lower-cost treatment to reduce insurer payout.
(s)  Require an insured to fail a cheaper treatment before approving coverage 
for necessary care.
(t)  Manipulate cost-sharing rules to shift higher costs to insureds.
(5)  TRANSPARENCY  AND REPORTING .  (a)  Beginning on January 1, 2027, an 
insurer shall annually publish a report detailing the insurer [s claim denial rates, 
reasons for claim denials, and the outcome of any appeal of a claim denial for the 
previous year for all disability insurance policies under which the insurer provides 
coverage.
(b)  The commissioner shall maintain a public database of insurers [ claim 
denial rates and the outcomes of independent reviews under s. 632.835.
(c)  Beginning on January 1, 2027, an insurer that uses artificial intelligence 
or algorithmic decision-making in claims processing shall annually publish a report 
detailing all of the following for the previous year for all disability insurance policies 
under which the insurer provides coverage:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1607 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2887
1.  The percentage of claims submitted to the insurer that were reviewed by 
artificial intelligence or algorithmic decision-making.
2.  The claim denial rate of claims reviewed by artificial intelligence or 
algorithmic decision-making compared to the claim denial rate of claims reviewed 
by humans.
3.  The steps the insurer takes to ensure fairness and accuracy in decisions 
made by artificial intelligence or algorithmic decision-making.
(6)  CLAIM  DENIAL  RATE  AUDITS .  (a)  The commissioner may conduct an audit 
of an insurer if the insurer [s claim denials are of such frequency as to indicate a 
general business practice.  This paragraph is supplemental to and does not limit 
any other powers or duties of the commissioner.
(b)  The commissioner may collect any relevant information from an insurer 
that is necessary to conduct an audit under par. (a).
(c)  The commissioner may contract with a 3rd party to conduct an audit under 
par. (a).
(d)  The commissioner may, based on the findings of an audit under par. (a), 
order the insurer who is the subject of the audit to comply with a corrective action 
plan approved by the commissioner.  The commissioner shall specify in any 
corrective action plan under this paragraph the deadline by which an insurer must 
be in compliance with the corrective action plan.
(e)  An insurer who is the subject of an audit under par. (a) shall provide a 
written response to any adverse findings of the audit.
(f)  If an insurer fails to comply with a corrective action plan under par. (d) by 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1608 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2887
the deadline specified by the commissioner, the commissioner may order the 
insurer to pay a forfeiture pursuant to s. 601.64 (3).
(7)  FORFEITURES .  A violation of this section that results in a harmful delay in 
an insured [s care or an adverse health outcome for an insured shall be subject to a 
civil forfeiture of $10,000 per occurrence, in addition to any other penalties provided 
in s. 601.64 (3) or other law.
SECTION  2888 .  601.575 of the statutes is created to read:
601.575   Prescription drug importation program.   (1)  IMPORTATION  
PROGRAM  REQUIREMENTS .  The commissioner, in consultation with persons 
interested in the sale and pricing of prescription drugs and appropriate officials 
and agencies of the federal government, shall design and implement a prescription 
drug importation program for the benefit of residents of this state, that generates 
savings for residents, and that satisfies all of the following:
(a)  The commissioner shall designate a state agency to become a licensed 
wholesale distributor or to contract with a licensed wholesale distributor and shall 
seek federal certification and approval to import prescription drugs.
(b)  The program shall comply with relevant requirements of 21 USC 384, 
including safety and cost savings requirements.
(c)  The program shall import prescription drugs from Canadian suppliers 
regulated under any appropriate Canadian or provincial laws.
(d)  The program shall have a process to sample the purity, chemical 
composition, and potency of imported prescription drugs.
(e)  The program shall import only those prescription drugs for which 
importation creates substantial savings for residents of this state and only those 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1609 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2888
prescription drugs that are not brand-name drugs and that have fewer than 4 
competitor prescription drugs in the United States.
(f)  The commissioner shall ensure that prescription drugs imported under the 
program are not distributed, dispensed, or sold outside of this state.
(g)  The program shall ensure all of the following:
1.  Participation by any pharmacy or health care provider in the program is 
voluntary.
2.  Any pharmacy or health care provider participating in the program has the 
appropriate license or other credential in this state.
3.  Any pharmacy or health care provider participating in the program charges 
a consumer or health plan the actual acquisition cost of the imported prescription 
drug that is dispensed.
(h)  The program shall ensure that a payment by a health plan or health 
insurance policy for a prescription drug imported under the program reimburses no 
more than the actual acquisition cost of the imported prescription drug that is 
dispensed.
(i)  The program shall ensure that any health plan or health insurance policy 
participating in the program does all of the following:
1.  Maintains a formulary and claims payment system with current 
information on prescription drugs imported under the program.
2.  Bases cost-sharing amounts for participants or insureds under the plan or 
policy on no more than the actual acquisition cost of the prescription drug imported 
under the program that is dispensed to the participant or insured.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1610 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2888
3.  Demonstrates to the commissioner or a state agency designated by the 
commissioner how premiums under the plan or policy are affected by savings on 
prescription drugs imported under the program.
(j)  Any wholesale distributor importing prescription drugs under the program 
shall limit its profit margin to the amount established by the commissioner or a 
state agency designated by the commissioner.
(k)  The program may not import any generic prescription drug that would 
violate federal patent laws on branded products in the United States.
(L)  The program shall comply with tracking and tracing requirements of 21 
USC 360eee and 360eee-1, to the extent practical and feasible, before the 
prescription drug to be imported comes into the possession of this state [s wholesale 
distributor and fully after the prescription drug to be imported is in the possession 
of this state [s wholesale distributor.
(m)  The program shall establish a fee or other mechanism to finance the 
program that does not jeopardize significant savings to residents of this state.
(n)  The program shall have an audit function that ensures all of the following:
1.  The commissioner has a sound methodology to determine the most cost-
effective prescription drugs to include in the program.
2.  The commissioner has a process in place to select Canadian suppliers that 
are high quality, high performing, and in full compliance with Canadian laws.
3.  Prescription drugs imported under the program are pure, unadulterated, 
potent, and safe.
4.  The program is complying with the requirements of this subsection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1611 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2888
5.  The program is adequately financed to support administrative functions of 
the program while generating significant cost savings to residents of this state.
6.  The program does not put residents of this state at a higher risk than if the 
program did not exist.
7.  The program provides and is projected to continue to provide substantial 
cost savings to residents of this state.
(2)  ANTICOMPETITIVE  BEHAVIOR .  The commissioner, in consultation with the 
attorney general, shall identify the potential for and monitor anticompetitive 
behavior in industries affected by a prescription drug importation program.
(3)  APPROVAL  OF PROGRAM  DESIGN ; CERTIFICATION .  No later than the first day 
of the 7th month beginning after the effective date of this subsection .... [LRB 
inserts date], the commissioner shall submit to the joint committee on finance a 
report that includes the design of the prescription drug importation program in 
accordance with this section.  The commissioner may not submit the proposed 
program to the federal department of health and human services unless the joint 
committee on finance approves the proposed program.  Within 14 days of the date of 
approval by the joint committee on finance of the proposed program, the 
commissioner shall submit to the federal department of health and human services 
a request for certification of the approved program.
(4)  IMPLEMENTATION  OF CERTIFIED  PROGRAM .  After the federal department of 
health and human services certifies the prescription drug importation program 
submitted under sub. (3), the commissioner shall begin implementation of the 
program, and the program shall be fully operational by 180 days after the date of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1612 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2888
certification by the federal department of health and human services.  The 
commissioner shall do all of the following to implement the program to the extent 
the action is in accordance with other state laws and the certification by the federal 
department of health and human services:
(a)  Become a licensed wholesale distributor, designate another state agency to 
become a licensed wholesale distributor, or contract with a licensed wholesale 
distributor.
(b)  Contract with one or more Canadian suppliers that meet the criteria in 
sub. (1) (c) and (n).
(c)  Create an outreach and marketing plan to communicate with and provide 
information to health plans and health insurance policies, employers, pharmacies, 
health care providers, and residents of this state on participating in the program.
(d)  Develop and implement a registration process for health plans and health 
insurance policies, pharmacies, and health care providers interested in 
participating in the program.
(e)  Create a publicly accessible source for listing prices of prescription drugs 
imported under the program.
(f)  Create, publicize, and implement a method of communication to promptly 
answer questions from and address the needs of persons affected by the 
implementation of the program before the program is fully operational.
(g)  Establish the audit functions under sub. (1) (n) with a timeline to complete 
each audit function every 2 years.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1613 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2888
(h)  Conduct any other activities determined by the commissioner to be 
important to successful implementation of the program.
(5)  REPORT .  By January 1 and July 1 of each year, the commissioner shall 
submit to the joint committee on finance a report including all of the following:
(a)  A list of prescription drugs included in the prescription drug importation 
program under this section.
(b)  The number of pharmacies, health care providers, and health plans and 
health insurance policies participating in the prescription drug importation 
program under this section.
(c)  The estimated amount of savings to residents of this state, health plans 
and health insurance policies, and employers resulting from the implementation of 
the prescription drug importation program under this section reported from the 
date of the previous report under this subsection and from the date the program 
was fully operational.
(d)  Findings of any audit functions under sub. (1) (n) completed since the date 
of the previous report under this subsection.
(6)  RULE MAKING .  The commissioner may promulgate any rules necessary to 
implement this section.
SECTION  2889 .  601.59 of the statutes is created to read:
601.59  State-based exchange.  (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XExchange Y has the meaning given in 45 CFR 155.20.
(b)  XState-based exchange on the federal platform Y means an exchange that is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1614 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2889
described in and meets the requirements of 45 CFR 155.200 (f) and is approved by 
the federal secretary of health and human services under 45 CFR 155.106.
(c)  XState-based exchange without the federal platform Y means an exchange, 
other than one described in 45 CFR 155.200 (f), that performs all the functions 
described in 45 CFR 155.200 (a) and is approved by the federal secretary of health 
and human services under 45 CFR 155.106.
(2)  E STABLISHMENT  AND OPERATION  OF STATE -BASED  EXCHANGE .  The 
commissioner shall establish and operate an exchange that at first is a state-based 
exchange on the federal platform and then subsequently transitions to a state-
based exchange without the federal platform.  The commissioner shall develop 
procedures to address the transition from the state-based exchange on the federal 
platform to the state-based exchange without the federal platform, including the 
circumstances that shall be met in order for the transition to occur.
(3)  AGREEMENT  WITH  FEDERAL  GOVERNMENT .  The commissioner may enter 
into any agreement with the federal government necessary to facilitate the 
implementation of this section.
(4)  USER FEES .  The commissioner shall impose a user fee, as authorized 
under 45 CFR 155.160 (b) (1), on each insurer that offers a health plan through the 
state-based exchange on the federal platform or the state-based exchange without 
the federal platform.  The user fee shall be applied at one of the following rates on 
the total monthly premiums charged by an insurer for each policy under the plan for 
which enrollment is through the exchange:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1615 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2889
(a)  For any plan year for which the commissioner operates a state-based 
exchange on the federal platform, the rate is 0.5 percent.
(b)  For the first 2 plan years for which the commissioner operates a state-
based exchange without the federal platform, the rate is equal to the user fee rate 
the federal department of health and human services specifies under 45 CFR 
156.50 (c) (1) for the federally facilitated exchanges for the applicable plan year.
(c)  Beginning with the 3rd plan year for which the commissioner operates a 
state-based exchange without the federal platform and for each plan year 
thereafter, the rate shall be set by the commissioner by rule.
(5)  RULES .  The commissioner may promulgate rules necessary to implement 
this section.
SECTION  2890 .  Subchapter VI (title) of chapter 601 [precedes 601.78] of the 
statutes is created to read:
CHAPTER 601
SUBCHAPTER VI
PRESCRIPTION DRUG
AFFORDABILITY REVIEW BOARD
SECTION  2891 .  601.78 of the statutes is created to read:
601.78  Definitions.  In this subchapter:
(1)  XBiologicY means a drug that is produced or distributed in accordance with 
a biologics license application approved under 21 CFR 601.20.
(2)  XBiosimilar Y means a drug that is produced or distributed in accordance 
with a biologics license application approved under 42 USC 262 (k) (3).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1616 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2891
(3)  XBoardY means the prescription drug affordability review board 
established under s. 15.735 (1).
(4)  XBrand name drug Y means a drug that is produced or distributed in 
accordance with an original new drug application approved under 21 USC 355 (c), 
other than an authorized generic drug, as defined in 42 CFR 447.502.
(5)  XFinancial benefit Y includes an honorarium, fee, stock, the value of the 
stock holdings of a member of the board or any immediate family member of the 
member of the board, and any direct financial benefit deriving from the finding of a 
review conducted under s. 601.79.
(6)  XGeneric drug Y means any of the following:
(a)  A retail drug that is marketed or distributed in accordance with an 
abbreviated new drug application approved under 21 USC 355 (j).
(b)  An authorized generic drug, as defined in 42 CFR 447.502.
(c)  A drug that entered the market prior to 1962 and was not originally 
marketed under a new drug application.
(7)  XImmediate family member Y means a spouse, grandparent, parent, 
sibling, child, stepchild, or grandchild or the spouse of a grandparent, parent, 
sibling, child, stepchild, or grandchild.
(8)  XManufacturer Y means an entity that does all of the following:
(a)  Engages in the manufacture of a prescription drug product or enters into 
a lease with another entity to market and distribute a prescription drug product 
under the entity [s own name.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1617 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2891
(b)  Sets or changes the wholesale acquisition cost of the prescription drug 
product described in par. (a).
(9)  XPharmacy benefit manager Y has the meaning given in s. 632.865 (1) (c).
(10)  XPrescription drug product Y means a brand name drug, a generic drug, a 
biologic, or a biosimilar.
SECTION  2892 .  601.785 of the statutes is created to read:
601.785  Prescription drug affordability review board.  (1)  MISSION .  
The purpose of the board is to protect state residents, the state, local governments, 
health plans, health care providers, pharmacies licensed in this state, and other 
stakeholders of the health care system in this state from the high costs of 
prescription drug products.
(2)  POWERS  AND DUTIES .  (a)  The board shall do all of the following:
1.  Meet in open session at least 4 times per year to review prescription drug 
product pricing information in the manner described in subd. 2., except that the 
chairperson may cancel or postpone a meeting if there is no business to transact.
2.  To the extent practicable, access and assess pricing information for 
prescription drug products by doing all of the following:
a.  Accessing and assessing information from other states by entering into 
memoranda of understanding with other states to which manufacturers report 
pricing information.
b.  Assessing spending for specific prescription drug products in this state.
c.  Accessing other available pricing information.
(b)  The board may do any of the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1618 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2892
1.  Promulgate rules for the administration of this subchapter.
2.  Enter into a contract with an independent 3rd party for any service 
necessary to carry out the powers and duties of the board.  Unless written 
permission is granted by the board, any person with whom the board contracts may 
not release, publish, or otherwise use any information to which the person has 
access under the contract.
(c)  The board shall establish and maintain a website to provide public notices 
and make meeting materials available under sub. (3) (a) and to disclose conflicts of 
interest under sub. (4) (d).
(3)  MEETING  REQUIREMENTS .  (a)  Pursuant to s. 19.84, the board shall provide 
public notice of each board meeting at least 2 weeks prior to the meeting and shall 
make the materials for each meeting publicly available at least one week prior to 
the meeting.
(b)  Notwithstanding s. 19.84 (2), the board shall provide an opportunity for 
public comment at each open meeting and shall provide the public with the 
opportunity to provide written comments on pending decisions of the board.
(c)  Notwithstanding subch. V of ch. 19, any portion of a meeting of the board 
concerning proprietary data and information shall be conducted in closed session 
and shall in all respects remain confidential.
(d)  The board may allow expert testimony at any meeting, including when the 
board meets in closed session.
(4)  CONFLICTS  OF INTEREST .  (a)  A member of the board shall recuse himself 
or herself from a decision by the board relating to a prescription drug product if the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1619 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2892
member or an immediate family member of the member has received or could 
receive any of the following:
1.  A direct financial benefit deriving from a determination, or a finding of a 
study or review, by the board relating to the prescription drug product.
2.  A financial benefit in excess of $5,000 in a calendar year from any person 
who owns, manufactures, or provides a prescription drug product to be studied or 
reviewed by the board.
(b)  A conflict of interest under this subsection shall be disclosed by the board 
when hiring board staff, by the appointing authority when appointing members to 
the board, and by the board when a member of the board is recused from any 
decision relating to a review of a prescription drug product.
(c)  A conflict of interest under this subsection shall be disclosed no later than 
5 days after the conflict is identified, except that, if the conflict is identified within 
5 days of an open meeting of the board, the conflict shall be disclosed prior to the 
meeting.
(d)  The board shall disclose a conflict of interest under this subsection on the 
board[s website unless the chairperson of the board recuses the member from a 
final decision relating to a review of the prescription drug product.  The disclosure 
shall include the type, nature, and magnitude of the interests of the member 
involved.
(e)  A member of the board or a 3rd-party contractor may not accept any gift or 
donation of services or property that indicates a potential conflict of interest or has 
the appearance of biasing the work of the board.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1620 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2893
SECTION  2893 .  601.79 of the statutes is created to read:
601.79  Drug cost affordability review.  (1)  IDENTIFICATION  OF DRUGS .  
The board shall identify prescription drug products that are any of the following:
(a)  A brand name drug or biologic that, as adjusted annually to reflect 
adjustments to the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city 
average, as determined by the U.S. department of labor, has a launch wholesale 
acquisition cost of at least $30,000 per year or course of treatment.
(b)  A brand name drug or biologic that, as adjusted annually to reflect 
adjustments to the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city 
average, as determined by the U.S. department of labor, has a wholesale acquisition 
cost that has increased by at least $3,000 during a 12-month period.
(c)  A biosimilar that has a launch wholesale acquisition cost that is not at 
least 15 percent lower than the referenced brand biologic at the time the biosimilar 
is launched.
(d)  A generic drug that has a wholesale acquisition cost, as adjusted annually 
to reflect adjustments to the U.S. consumer price index for all urban consumers, 
U.S. city average, as determined by the U.S. department of labor, that meets all of 
the following conditions:
1.  Is at least $100 for a supply lasting a patient for a period of 30 consecutive 
days based on the recommended dosage approved for labeling by the federal food 
and drug administration, a supply lasting a patient for a period of fewer than 30 
days based on the recommended dosage approved for labeling by the federal food 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1621 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2893
and drug administration, or one unit of the drug if the labeling approved by the 
federal food and drug administration does not recommend a finite dosage.
2.  Increased by at least 200 percent during the preceding 12-month period, as 
determined by the difference between the resulting wholesale acquisition cost and 
the average of the wholesale acquisition cost reported over the preceding 12 
months.
(e)  Other prescription drug products, including drugs to address public health 
emergencies, that may create affordability challenges for the health care system 
and patients in this state.
(2)  AFFORDABILITY  REVIEW .  (a)  After identifying prescription drug products 
under sub. (1), the board shall determine whether to conduct an affordability 
review for each identified prescription drug product by seeking stakeholder input 
about the prescription drug product and considering the average patient cost share 
of the prescription drug product.
(b)  The information used to conduct an affordability review under par. (a) may 
include any document and research related to the manufacturer [s selection of the 
introductory price or price increase of the prescription drug product, including life 
cycle management, net average price in this state, market competition and context, 
projected revenue, and the estimated value or cost-effectiveness of the prescription 
drug product.
(c)  The failure of a manufacturer to provide the board with information for an 
affordability review under par. (b) does not affect the authority of the board to 
conduct the review.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1622 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2893
(3)  AFFORDABILITY  CHALLENGE .  When conducting an affordability review of a 
prescription drug product under sub. (2), the board shall determine whether use of 
the prescription drug product that is fully consistent with the labeling approved by 
the federal food and drug administration or standard medical practice has led or 
will lead to an affordability challenge for the health care system in this state, 
including high out-of-pocket costs for patients.  To the extent practicable, in 
determining whether a prescription drug product has led or will lead to an 
affordability challenge, the board shall consider all of the following factors:
(a)  The wholesale acquisition cost for the prescription drug product sold in 
this state.
(b)  The average monetary price concession, discount, or rebate the 
manufacturer provides, or is expected to provide, to health plans in this state as 
reported by manufacturers and health plans, expressed as a percentage of the 
wholesale acquisition cost for the prescription drug product under review.
(c)  The total amount of the price concessions, discounts, and rebates the 
manufacturer provides to each pharmacy benefit manager for the prescription drug 
product under review, as reported by the manufacturer and pharmacy benefit 
manager and expressed as a percentage of the wholesale acquisition cost.
(d)  The price at which therapeutic alternatives to the prescription drug 
product have been sold in this state.
(e)  The average monetary concession, discount, or rebate the manufacturer 
provides or is expected to provide to health plan payors and pharmacy benefit 
managers in this state for therapeutic alternatives to the prescription drug product.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1623 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2893
(f)  The costs to health plans based on patient access consistent with labeled 
indications by the federal food and drug administration and recognized standard 
medical practice.
(g)  The impact on patient access resulting from the cost of the prescription 
drug product relative to insurance benefit design.
(h)  The current or expected dollar value of drug-specific patient access 
programs that are supported by the manufacturer.
(i)  The relative financial impacts to health, medical, or social services costs 
that can be quantified and compared to baseline effects of existing therapeutic 
alternatives to the prescription drug product.
(j)  The average patient copay or other cost sharing for the prescription drug 
product in this state.
(k)  Any information a manufacturer chooses to provide.
(L)  Any other factors as determined by the board by rule.
(4)  UPPER  PAYMENT  LIMIT .  (a)  If the board determines under sub. (3) that use 
of a prescription drug product has led or will lead to an affordability challenge, the 
board shall establish an upper payment limit for the prescription drug product after 
considering all of the following:
1.  The cost of administering the drug.
2.  The cost of delivering the drug to consumers.
3.  Other relevant administrative costs related to the drug.
(b)  For a prescription drug product identified in sub. (1) (b) or (d) 2., the board 
shall solicit information from the manufacturer regarding the price increase.  To 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1624 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2893
the extent that the price increase is not a result of the need for increased 
manufacturing capacity or other effort to improve patient access during a public 
health emergency, the board shall establish an upper payment limit under par. (a) 
that is equal to the cost to consumers prior to the price increase.
(c) 1.  The upper payment limit established under this subsection shall apply 
to all purchases and payor reimbursements of the prescription drug product 
dispensed or administered to individuals in this state in person, by mail, or by other 
means.
2.  Notwithstanding subd. 1., while state-sponsored and state-regulated 
health plans and health programs shall limit drug reimbursements and drug 
payment to no more than the upper payment limit established under this 
subsection, a plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 
or Part D of Medicare under 42 USC 1395w-101 et seq. may choose to reimburse 
more than the upper payment limit.  A provider who dispenses and administers a 
prescription drug product in this state to an individual in this state may not bill a 
payor more than the upper payment limit to the patient regardless of whether a 
plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 or Part D of 
Medicare under 42 USC 1395w-101 et seq. chooses to reimburse the provider above 
the upper payment limit.
(5)  PUBLIC  INSPECTION .  Information submitted to the board under this 
section shall be open to public inspection only as provided under ss. 19.31 to 19.39.
(6)  NO PROHIBITION  ON MARKETING .  Nothing in this section may be construed 
to prevent a manufacturer from marketing a prescription drug product approved by 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1625 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2893
the federal food and drug administration while the prescription drug product is 
under review by the board.
(7)  APPEALS .  A person aggrieved by a decision of the board may request an 
appeal of the decision no later than 30 days after the board makes the 
determination.  The board shall hear the appeal and make a final decision no later 
than 60 days after the appeal is requested.  A person aggrieved by a final decision of 
the board may petition for judicial review  in a court of competent jurisdiction.
SECTION  2894 .  601.83 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
601.83 (1) (a)  The commissioner shall administer a state-based reinsurance 
program known as the healthcare stability plan in accordance with the specific 
terms and conditions approved by the federal department of health and human 
services dated July 29, 2018.  Before December 31, 2023, the commissioner may not 
request from the federal department of health and human services a modification, 
suspension, withdrawal, or termination of the waiver under 42 USC 18052 under 
which the healthcare stability plan under this subchapter operates unless 
legislation has been enacted specifically directing the modification, suspension, 
withdrawal, or termination.  Before December 31, 2023, the commissioner may 
request renewal, without substantive change, of the waiver under 42 USC 18052 
under which the health care stability plan operates in accordance with s. 20.940 (4) 
unless legislation has been enacted that is contrary to such a renewal request.  The 
commissioner shall comply with applicable timing in and requirements of s. 20.940.
SECTION  2895 .  601.83 (1) (h) of the statutes is renumbered 601.83 (1) (h) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
601.83 (1) (h) (intro.)  In 2019 and in each subsequent year, the The 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1626 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2895
commissioner may expend no more than $200,000,000 the following amounts from 
all revenue sources for the healthcare stability plan under this section, unless the 
joint committee on finance under s. 13.10 governor has increased this amount upon 
request by the commissioner.:
(he)  The commissioner shall ensure that sufficient funds are available for the 
healthcare stability plan under this section to operate as described in the approval 
of the federal department of health and human services dated July 29, 2018, and in 
any waiver extension approvals.
SECTION  2896 .  601.83 (1) (h) 1. to 3. of the statutes are created to read:
601.83 (1) (h) 1.  In 2025, $230,000,000.
2.  In 2026, $250,000,000.
3.  In 2027 and in each year thereafter, the maximum expenditure amount for 
the previous year, adjusted to reflect the percentage increase, if any, in the 
consumer price index for all urban consumers, U.S. city average, for the medical 
care group, as determined by the U.S. department of labor, for the 12-month period 
ending on December 31 of the year before the year in which the amount is 
determined.  The commissioner shall determine the annual adjustment amount for 
a particular year in January of the previous year.  The commissioner shall publish 
the new maximum expenditure amount under this subdivision each year in the 
Wisconsin Administrative Register.
SECTION  2897 .  601.83 (1) (hm) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2898 .  609.04 of the statutes is created to read:
609.04   Preventing surprise medical bills; emergency medical 
services.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1627 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
(a)  XEmergency medical condition Y means all of the following:
1.  A medical condition, including a mental health condition or substance use 
disorder condition, manifesting itself by acute symptoms of sufficient severity, 
including severe pain, such that the absence of immediate medical attention could 
reasonably be expected to result in any of the following:
a.  Placing the health of the individual or, with respect to a pregnant woman, 
the health of the woman or her unborn child in serious jeopardy.
b.  Serious impairment of bodily function.
c.  Serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part.
2.  With respect to a pregnant woman who is having contractions, a medical 
condition for which there is inadequate time to safely transfer the pregnant woman 
to another hospital before delivery or for which the transfer may pose a threat to the 
health or safety of the pregnant woman or the unborn child.
(b)  XEmergency medical services, Y with respect to an emergency medical 
condition, has the meaning given for Xemergency services Y in 42 USC 300gg-111 (a) 
(3) (C).
(c)  XIndependent freestanding emergency department Y has the meaning given 
in 42 USC 300gg-111 (a) (3) (D).
(d)  XOut-of-network rate Y has the meaning given by the commissioner by rule 
or, in the absence of such rule, the meaning given in 42 USC 300gg-111 (a) (3) (K).
(e)  XPreferred provider plan, Y notwithstanding s. 609.01 (4), includes only any 
preferred provider plan, as defined in s. 609.01 (4), that has a network of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1628 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
participating providers and imposes on enrollees different requirements for using 
providers that are not participating providers.
(f)  XRecognized amount Y has the meaning given by the commissioner by rule 
or, in the absence of such rule, the meaning given in 42 USC 300gg-111 (a) (3) (H).
(g)  XSelf-insured governmental plan Y means a self-insured health plan of the 
state or a county, city, village, town, or school district that has a network of 
participating providers and imposes on enrollees in the self-insured health plan 
different requirements for using providers that are not participating providers.
(h)  XTerminated Y means the expiration or nonrenewal of a contract.  
XTerminated Y does not include a termination of a contract for failure to meet 
applicable quality standards or for fraud.
(2)  E MERGENCY  MEDICAL  SERVICES .  A defined network plan, preferred 
provider plan, or self-insured governmental plan that covers any benefits or 
services provided in an emergency department of a hospital or emergency medical 
services provided in an independent freestanding emergency department shall 
cover emergency medical services in accordance with all of the following:
(a)  The plan may not require a prior authorization determination.
(b)  The plan may not deny coverage on the basis of whether or not the health 
care provider providing the services is a participating provider or participating 
facility.
(c)  If the emergency medical services are provided to an enrollee by a provider 
or in a facility that is not a participating provider or participating facility, the plan 
complies with all of the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1629 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
1.  The emergency medical services are covered without imposing on an 
enrollee a requirement for prior authorization or any coverage limitation that is 
more restrictive than requirements or limitations that apply to emergency medical 
services provided by participating providers or in participating facilities.
2.  Any cost-sharing requirement imposed on an enrollee for the emergency 
medical services is no greater than the requirements that would apply if the 
emergency medical services were provided by a participating provider or in a 
participating facility.
3.  Any cost-sharing amount imposed on an enrollee for the emergency medical 
services is calculated as if the total amount that would have been charged for the 
emergency medical services if provided by a participating provider or in a 
participating facility is equal to the recognized amount for such services, plan or 
coverage, and year.
4.  The plan does all of the following:
a.  No later than 30 days after the participating provider or participating 
facility transmits to the plan the bill for emergency medical services, sends to the 
provider or facility an initial payment or a notice of denial of payment.
b.  Pays to the participating provider or participating facility a total amount 
that, incorporating any initial payment under subd. 4. a., is equal to the amount by 
which the out-of-network rate exceeds the cost-sharing amount.
5.  The plan counts any cost-sharing payment made by the enrollee for the 
emergency medical services toward any in-network deductible or out-of-pocket 
maximum applied by the plan in the same manner as if the cost-sharing payment 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1630 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
was made for emergency medical services provided by a participating provider or in 
a participating facility.
(3)  NONPARTICIPATING  PROVIDER  IN PARTICIPATING  FACILITY .  For items or 
services other than emergency medical services that are provided to an enrollee of 
a defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured governmental plan 
by a provider who is not a participating provider but who is providing services at a 
participating facility, the plan shall provide coverage for the item or service in 
accordance with all of the following:
(a)  The plan may not impose on an enrollee a cost-sharing requirement for the 
item or service that is greater than the cost-sharing requirement that would have 
been imposed if the item or service was provided by a participating provider.
(b)  Any cost-sharing amount imposed on an enrollee for the item or service is 
calculated as if the total amount that would have been charged for the item or 
service if provided by a participating provider is equal to the recognized amount for 
such item or service, plan or coverage, and year.
(c)  No later than 30 days after the provider transmits the bill for services, the 
plan shall send to the provider an initial payment or a notice of denial of payment.
(d)  The plan shall make a total payment directly to the provider who provided 
the item or service to the enrollee that, added to any initial payment described 
under par. (c), is equal to the amount by which the out-of-network rate for the item 
or service exceeds the cost-sharing amount.
(e)  The plan counts any cost-sharing payment made by the enrollee for the 
item or service toward any in-network deductible or out-of-pocket maximum 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1631 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
applied by the plan in the same manner as if the cost-sharing payment was made 
for the item or service when provided by a participating provider.
(4)  CHARGING  FOR SERVICES  BY NONPARTICIPATING  PROVIDER ; NOTICE  AND 
CONSENT .  (a)  Except as provided in par. (c), a provider of an item or service who is 
entitled to payment under sub. (3) may not bill or hold liable an enrollee for any 
amount for the item or service that is more than the cost-sharing amount 
calculated under sub. (3) (b) for the item or service unless the nonparticipating 
provider provides notice and obtains consent in accordance with all of the following:
1.  The notice states that the provider is not a participating provider in the 
enrollee[s defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured 
governmental plan.
2.  The notice provides a good faith estimate of the amount that the 
nonparticipating provider may charge the enrollee for the item or service involved, 
including notification that the estimate does not constitute a contract with respect 
to the charges estimated for the item or service.
3.  The notice includes a list of the participating providers at the participating 
facility who would be able to provide the item or service and notification that the 
enrollee may be referred to one of those participating providers.
4.  The notice includes information about whether or not prior authorization or 
other care management limitations may be required before receiving an item or 
service at the participating facility.
5.  The notice clearly states that consent is optional and that the patient may 
elect to seek care from an in-network provider.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1632 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
6.  The notice is worded in plain language.
7.  The notice is available in languages other than English.  The commissioner 
shall identify languages for which the notice should be available.
8.  The enrollee provides consent to the nonparticipating provider to be treated 
by the nonparticipating provider, and the consent acknowledges that the enrollee 
has been informed that the charge paid by the enrollee may not meet a limitation 
that the enrollee [s defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured 
governmental plan places on cost sharing, such as an in-network deductible.
9.  A signed copy of the consent described under subd. 8. is provided to the 
enrollee.
(b)  To be considered adequate, the notice and consent under par. (a) shall meet 
one of the following requirements, as applicable:
1.  If the enrollee makes an appointment for the item or service at least 72 
hours before the day on which the item or service is to be provided, any notice under 
par. (a) shall be provided to the enrollee at least 72 hours before the day of the 
appointment at which the item or service is to be provided.
2.  If the enrollee makes an appointment for the item or service less than 72 
hours before the day on which the item or service is to be provided, any notice under 
par. (a) shall be provided to the enrollee on the day that the appointment is made.
(c)  A provider of an item or service who is entitled to payment under sub. (3) 
may not bill or hold liable an enrollee for any amount for an ancillary item or 
service that is more than the cost-sharing amount calculated under sub. (3) (b) for 
the item or service, whether or not provided by a physician or non-physician 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1633 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
practitioner, unless the commissioner specifies by rule that the provider may bill or 
hold the enrollee liable for the ancillary item or service, if the item or service is any 
of the following:
1.  Related to an emergency medical service.
2.  Anesthesiology.
3.  Pathology.
4.  Radiology.
5.  Neonatology.
6.  An item or service provided by an assistant surgeon, hospitalist, or 
intensivist.
7.  A diagnostic service, including a radiology or laboratory service.
8.  An item or service provided by a specialty practitioner that the 
commissioner specifies by rule.
9.  An item or service provided by a nonparticipating provider when there is no 
participating provider who can furnish the item or service at the participating 
facility.
(d)  Any notice and consent provided under par. (a) may not extend to items or 
services furnished as a result of unforeseen, urgent medical needs that arise at the 
time the item or service is provided.
(e)  Any consent provided under par. (a) shall be retained by the provider for no 
less than 7 years.
(5)  NOTICE  BY PROVIDER  OR FACILITY .  Beginning no later than January 1, 
2026, a health care provider or health care facility shall make available, including 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1634 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
posting on a website, to enrollees in defined network plans, preferred provider 
plans, and self-insured governmental plans notice of the requirements on a provider 
or facility under sub. (4), of any other applicable state law requirements on the 
provider or facility with respect to charging an enrollee for an item or service if the 
provider or facility does not have a contractual relationship with the plan, and of 
information on contacting appropriate state or federal agencies in the event the 
enrollee believes the provider or facility violates any of the requirements under this 
section or other applicable law.
(6)  NEGOTIATION ; DISPUTE  RESOLUTION .  A provider or facility that is entitled 
to receive an initial payment or notice of denial under sub. (2) (c) 4. a. or (3) (c) may 
initiate, within 30 days of receiving the initial payment or notice of denial, open 
negotiations with the defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured 
governmental plan to determine a payment amount for an emergency medical 
service or other item or service for a period that terminates 30 days after initiating 
open negotiations.  If the open negotiation period under this subsection terminates 
without determination of a payment amount, the provider, facility, defined network 
plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured governmental plan may initiate, 
within the 4 days beginning on the day after the open negotiation period ends, the 
independent dispute resolution process as specified by the commissioner.  If the 
independent dispute resolution decision-maker determines the payment amount, 
the party to the independent dispute resolution process whose amount was not 
selected shall pay the fees for the independent dispute resolution.  If the parties to 
the independent dispute resolution reach a settlement on the payment amount, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1635 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
parties to the independent dispute resolution shall equally divide the payment for 
the fees for the independent dispute resolution.
(7)  CONTINUITY  OF CARE .  (a)  In this subsection:
1.  XContinuing care patient Y means an individual who is any of the following:
a.  Undergoing a course of treatment for a serious and complex condition from 
a provider or facility.
b.  Undergoing a course of institutional or inpatient care from a provider or 
facility.
c.  Scheduled to undergo nonelective surgery, including receipt of postoperative 
care, from a provider or facility.
d.  Pregnant and undergoing a course of treatment for the pregnancy from a 
provider or facility.
e.  Terminally ill and receiving treatment for the illness from a provider or 
facility.
2.  XSerious and complex condition Y means any of the following:
a.  In the case of an acute illness, a condition that is serious enough to require 
specialized medical treatment to avoid the reasonable possibility of death or 
permanent harm.
b.  In the case of a chronic illness or condition, a condition that is life-
threatening, degenerative, potentially disabling, or congenital and requires 
specialized medical care over a prolonged period.
(b)  If an enrollee is a continuing care patient and is obtaining items or 
services from a participating provider or participating facility and the contract 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1636 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
between the defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured 
governmental plan and the provider or facility is terminated because of a change in 
the terms of the participation of the provider or facility in the plan or the contract 
between the defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured 
governmental plan and the provider or facility is terminated, resulting in a loss of 
benefits provided under the plan, the plan shall do all of the following:
1.  Notify each enrollee of the termination of the contract or benefits and of the 
right for the enrollee to elect to continue transitional care from the participating 
provider or participating facility under this subsection.
2.  Provide the enrollee an opportunity to notify the plan of the need for 
transitional care.
3.  Allow the enrollee to elect to continue to have the benefits provided under 
the plan under the same terms and conditions as would have applied to the item or 
service if the termination had not occurred for the course of treatment related to the 
enrollee[s status as a continuing care patient beginning on the date on which the 
notice under subd. 1. is provided and ending 90 days after the date on which the 
notice under subd. 1. is provided or the date on which the enrollee is no longer a 
continuing care patient, whichever is earlier.
(c)  The provisions of s. 609.24 apply to a continuing care patient to the extent 
that s. 609.24 does not conflict with this subsection so as to limit the enrollee [s 
rights under this subsection.
(8)  RULE MAKING .  The commissioner may promulgate any rules necessary to 
implement this section, including specifying the independent dispute resolution 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1637 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2898
process under sub. (6).  The commissioner may promulgate rules to modify the list 
of those items and services for which a provider may not bill or hold liable an 
enrollee under sub. (4) (c).  In promulgating rules under this subsection, the 
commissioner may consider any rules promulgated by the federal department of 
health and human services pursuant to the federal No Surprises Act, 42 USC 
300gg-111, et seq.
SECTION  2899 .  609.20 (3) of the statutes is created to read:
609.20 (3)  The commissioner may promulgate rules to establish minimum 
network time and distance standards and minimum network wait-time standards 
for defined network plans and preferred provider plans.  In promulgating rules 
under this subsection, the commissioner shall consider standards adopted by the 
federal centers for medicare and medicaid services for qualified health plans, as 
defined in 42 USC 18021 (a), that are offered through the federal health insurance 
exchange established pursuant to 42 USC 18041 (c).
SECTION  2900 .  609.24 (5) of the statutes is created to read:
609.24 (5)  DURATION  OF BENEFITS .  If an enrollee is a continuing care patient, 
as defined in s. 609.04 (7) (a), and if any of the situations described under s. 609.04 
(7) (b) (intro.) applies, all of the following apply to the enrollee [s defined network 
plan:
(a)  Subsection (1) (c) shall apply to any of the participating providers 
providing the enrollee [s course of treatment under s. 609.04 (7), including the 
enrollee[s primary care physician.
(b)  Subsection (1) (c) shall apply to lengthen the period in which benefits are 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1638 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2900
provided under s. 609.04 (7) (b) 3. but may not be applied to shorten the period in 
which benefits are provided under s. 609.04 (7) (b) 3.
(c)  Subsection (1) (d) may not be applied in a manner that limits the enrollee [s 
rights under s. 609.04 (7) (b) 3.
(d)  No plan may contract or arrange with a participating provider to provide 
notice of the termination of the participating provider [s participation, pursuant to 
sub. (4).
SECTION  2901 .  609.40 of the statutes is created to read:
609.40   Special enrollment period for pregnancy.   Preferred provider 
plans and defined network plans are subject to s. 632.7498.
SECTION  2902 .  609.712 of the statutes is created to read:
609.712   Essential health benefits; preventive services.   Defined 
network plans and preferred provider plans are subject to s. 632.895 (13m) and 
(14m).
SECTION  2903 .  609.713 of the statutes is created to read:
609.713  Qualified treatment trainee coverage.   Limited service health 
organizations, preferred provider plans, and defined network plans are subject to s. 
632.87 (7).
SECTION  2904 .  609.714 of the statutes is created to read:
609.714   Substance abuse counselor coverage.   Limited service health 
organizations, preferred provider plans, and defined network plans are subject to s. 
632.87 (8).
SECTION  2905 .  609.718 of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1639 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2905
609.718   Dental therapist coverage.   Limited service health organizations, 
preferred provider plans, and defined network plans are subject to s. 632.87 (4e).
SECTION  2906 .  609.719 of the statutes is created to read:
609.719   Coverage for telehealth services.   Limited service health 
organizations, preferred provider plans, and defined network plans are subject to s. 
632.871.
SECTION  2907 .  609.74 of the statutes is created to read:
609.74   Coverage of infertility services.   Defined network plans and 
preferred provider plans are subject to s. 632.895 (15m).
SECTION  2908 .  609.815 of the statutes is created to read:
609.815  Exemption from prior authorization requirements.   Limited 
service health organizations, preferred provider plans, and defined network plans 
are subject to any rules promulgated by the commissioner under s. 632.848.
SECTION  2909 .  609.823 of the statutes is created to read:
609.823   Coverage without prior authorization for inpatient mental 
health services.   Limited service health organizations, preferred provider plans, 
and defined network plans are subject to s. 632.891.  
SECTION  2910 .  609.825 of the statutes is created to read:
609.825  Coverage of emergency ambulance services.  (1)   In this 
section:
(a)  XAmbulance service provider Y has the meaning given in s. 256.01 (3).
(b)  XSelf-insured governmental plan Y means a self-insured health plan of the 
state or a county, city, village, town, or school district that has a network of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1640 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2910
participating providers and imposes on enrollees in the self-insured health plan 
different requirements for using providers that are not participating providers.
(2)  A defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured 
governmental plan that provides coverage of emergency medical services shall 
cover emergency ambulance services provided by an ambulance service provider 
that is not a participating provider at a rate that is not lower than the greatest rate 
that is any of the following:
(a)  A rate that is set or approved by a local governmental entity in the 
jurisdiction in which the emergency ambulance services originated.
(b)  A rate that is 400 percent of the current published rate for the provided 
emergency ambulance services established by the federal centers for medicare and 
medicaid services under title XVIII of the federal Social Security Act, 42 USC 1395 
et seq., in the same geographic area or a rate that is equivalent to the rate billed by 
the ambulance service provider for emergency ambulance services provided, 
whichever is less.
(c)  The contracted rate at which the defined network plan, preferred provider 
plan, or self-insured governmental plan would reimburse a participating 
ambulance service provider for the same emergency ambulance services.
(3)  No defined network plan, preferred provider plan, or self-insured 
governmental plan may impose a cost-sharing amount on an enrollee for emergency 
ambulance services provided by an ambulance service provider that is not a 
participating provider at a rate that is greater than the requirements that would 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1641 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2910
apply if the emergency ambulance services were provided by a participating 
ambulance service provider.
(4)  No ambulance service provider that receives reimbursement under this 
section may bill an enrollee for any additional amount for emergency ambulance 
services except for any copayment, coinsurance, deductible, or other cost-sharing 
responsibilities required to be paid by the enrollee.
(5)  For purposes of this section, Xemergency ambulance services Y does not 
include air ambulance services.
SECTION  2911 .  609.83 of the statutes is amended to read:
609.83   Coverage of drugs and devices; application of payments.   
Limited service health organizations, preferred provider plans, and defined 
network plans are subject to ss. 632.853, 632.861, 632.862, and 632.895 (6) (b), 
(16t), and (16v).
SECTION  2912 .  609.847 of the statutes is created to read:
609.847   Preexisting condition discrimination and certain benefit 
limits prohibited.   Limited service health organizations, preferred provider 
plans, and defined network plans are subject to s. 632.728.
SECTION  2913 .  611.11 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
611.11 (4) (a)  In this subsection, Xmunicipality Y has the meaning given in s. 
345.05 (1) (c), but also includes any transit authority created under s. 66.1039.
SECTION  2914 .  625.12 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
625.12 (1) (a)  Past and prospective loss and expense experience within and 
outside of this state, except as provided in s. 632.728.
SECTION  2915 .  625.12 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1642 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2915
625.12 (1) (e)  Subject to s. ss. 632.365 and 632.728, all other relevant factors, 
including the judgment of technical personnel.
SECTION  2916 .  625.12 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
625.12 (2)  CLASSIFICATION .  Except as provided in s. ss. 632.728 and 632.729, 
risks may be classified in any reasonable way for the establishment of rates and 
minimum premiums, except that no classifications may be based on race, color, 
creed or national origin, and classifications in automobile insurance may not be 
based on physical condition or developmental disability as defined in s. 51.01 (5).  
Subject to ss. 632.365, 632.728, and 632.729, rates thus produced may be modified 
for individual risks in accordance with rating plans or schedules that establish 
reasonable standards for measuring probable variations in hazards, expenses, or 
both.  Rates may also be modified for individual risks under s. 625.13 (2).
SECTION  2917 .  625.15 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
625.15 (1)  RATE MAKING .  An Except as provided in s. 632.728, an insurer may 
itself establish rates and supplementary rate information for one or more market 
segments based on the factors in s. 625.12 and, if the rates are for motor vehicle 
liability insurance, subject to s. 632.365, or the insurer may use rates and 
supplementary rate information prepared by a rate service organization, with 
average expense factors determined by the rate service organization or with such 
modification for its own expense and loss experience as the credibility of that 
experience allows.
SECTION  2918 .  628.34 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
628.34 (3) (a)  No insurer may unfairly discriminate among policyholders by 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1643 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2918
charging different premiums or by offering different terms of coverage except on the 
basis of classifications related to the nature and the degree of the risk covered or the 
expenses involved, subject to ss. 632.365, 632.728, 632.729, 632.746 and, 632.748, 
and 632.7496.  Rates are not unfairly discriminatory if they are averaged broadly 
among persons insured under a group, blanket or franchise policy, and terms are 
not unfairly discriminatory merely because they are more favorable than in a 
similar individual policy.
SECTION  2919 .  628.42 of the statutes is created to read:
628.42  Disclosure and review of prior authorization requirements.  
(1)  In this section:
(a)  XHealth care plan Y has the meaning given in s. 628.36 (2) (a) 1.
(b) 1.  XPrior authorization Y means the process by which a health care plan or 
a contracted utilization review organization determines the medical necessity and 
medical appropriateness of otherwise covered health care services.
2.  XPrior authorization Y includes any requirement that an enrollee or provider 
notify the health care plan or a contracted utilization review organization before, at 
the time of, or concurrent to providing a health care service.
(b)  XProvider Y has the meaning given in s. 628.36 (2) (a) 2.
(2) (a)  A health care plan shall maintain a complete list of services for which 
prior authorization is required, including services where prior authorization is 
performed by an entity under contract with the health care plan.
(b)  A health care plan shall publish the list under par. (a) on its website.  The 
list shall be accessible by members of the general public without requiring the 
creation of any of an account or the entry of any credentials or personal information.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1644 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2919
(c)  The list under par. (a) is not required to contain any clinical review criteria 
applicable to the services.
(3) (a)  A health care plan shall make any current prior authorization 
requirements and restrictions along with the clinical review criteria applicable to 
those requirements or restrictions accessible and conspicuously posted on its 
website to enrollees and providers.  Content published by a 3rd party and licensed 
for use by a health care plan or a contracted utilization review organization may 
satisfy this subsection if it is available to access through the website of the health 
care plan or the contracted utilization review organization as long as the website 
does not unreasonably restrict access.
(b)  The prior authorization requirements and restrictions under par. (a) shall 
be described in detail, and shall be written in easily understandable, plain 
language.
(c)  The prior authorization requirements and restrictions under par. (a) shall 
indicate all of the following for each service subject to the prior authorization 
requirements and restrictions:
1.  When the requirement or restriction began for policies issued or delivered 
in this state, including effective dates and any termination dates.
2.  The date that the requirement or restriction was listed on the website of the 
health care plan or a contracted utilization review organization.
3.  The date that the requirement or restriction was removed in this state.
4.  A method to access a standardized electronic prior authorization request 
transaction process.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1645 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2919
(4)  Any clinical review criteria on which a prior authorization requirement or 
restriction is based shall satisfy all of the following:
(a)  The criteria are based on nationally recognized, generally accepted 
standards except where provided by law.
(b)  The criteria are developed in accordance with the current standards of a 
national medical accreditation entity.
(c)  The criteria ensure quality of care and access to needed health care 
services.
(d)  The criteria are evidence-based.
(e)  The criteria are sufficiently flexible to allow deviations from current 
standards when justified.
(f)  The criteria are evaluated and updated when necessary and no less 
frequently than once every year.
(5)  No health care plan may deny a claim for failure to obtain prior 
authorization if the prior authorization requirement was not in effect on the date 
that the service was provided.
(6)  No health care plan nor any utilization review organization contracted 
with a health care plan may deem supplies or services as incidental or deny a claim 
for supplies or services if a provided health care service associated with the 
supplies or services receives prior authorization or if a provided health care service 
associated with the supplies or services does not require prior authorization.
(7)  If a health care plan intends to impose a new prior authorization 
requirement or restriction or intends to amend a prior authorization requirement 
or restriction, the health care plan shall provide all providers contracted with the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1646 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2919
health care plan advanced written notice of the new or amended requirement or 
restriction no less than 60 days before the new or amended requirement or 
restriction is implemented.  The advanced written notice may be provided in an 
electronic format if the provider has agreed in advance to receive the notices 
electronically.  No health care plan may implement a new or amended prior 
authorization requirement or restriction unless the health care plan or a contracted 
utilization review organization has updated the post on its website required under 
sub. (3) to reflect the new or amended prior authorization requirement or 
restriction.
SECTION  2920 .  628.495 of the statutes is created to read:
628.495   Pharmacy benefit management broker and consultant 
licenses.   (1)  DEFINITION .  In this section, Xpharmacy benefit manager Y has the 
meaning given in s. 632.865 (1) (c).
(2)  L ICENSE  REQUIRED .  Beginning on the first day of the 12th month 
beginning after the effective date of this subsection .... [LRB inserts date], no 
individual may act as a pharmacy benefit management broker or consultant and no 
individual may act to procure the services of a pharmacy benefit manager on behalf 
of a client without being licensed by the commissioner under this section.
(3)  RULES .  The commissioner may promulgate rules to establish criteria and 
procedures for initial licensure and renewal of licensure and to implement licensure 
under this section.
SECTION  2921 .  632.35 of the statutes is amended to read:
632.35   Prohibited rejection, cancellation and nonrenewal.   No insurer 
may cancel or refuse to issue or renew an automobile insurance policy wholly or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1647 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2921
partially because of one or more of the following characteristics of any person: age, 
sex, residence, race, color, creed, religion, national origin, ancestry, marital status 
or, occupation, or status as a holder or nonholder of a license under s. 343.03 (3r).
SECTION  2922 .  632.728 of the statutes is created to read:
632.728   Coverage of persons with preexisting conditions; guaranteed 
issue; benefit limits.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XCost sharing Y includes deductibles, coinsurance, copayments, or similar 
charges.
(b)  XHealth benefit plan Y has the meaning given in s. 632.745 (11).
(c)  XSelf-insured health plan Y has the meaning given in s. 632.85 (1) (c).
(2)  GUARANTEED  ISSUE .  (a)  Every individual health benefit plan shall accept 
every individual in this state who, and every group health benefit plan shall accept 
every employer in this state that, applies for coverage, regardless of the sexual 
orientation, the gender identity, or any preexisting condition of any individual or 
employee who will be covered by the plan.  A health benefit plan may restrict 
enrollment in coverage described in this paragraph to open or special enrollment 
periods.
(b)  The commissioner shall establish a statewide open enrollment period that 
is no shorter than 30 days, during which every individual health benefit plan shall 
allow individuals, including individuals who do not have coverage, to enroll in 
coverage.
(3)  P ROHIBITING  DISCRIMINATION  BASED  ON HEALTH  STATUS .  (a)  An 
individual health benefit plan or a self-insured health plan may not establish rules 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1648 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2922
for the eligibility of any individual to enroll, or for the continued eligibility of any 
individual to remain enrolled, under the plan based on any of the following health 
status-related factors in relation to the individual or a dependent of the individual:
1.  Health status.
2.  Medical condition, including both physical and mental illnesses.
3.  Claims experience.
4.  Receipt of health care.
5.  Medical history.
6.  Genetic information.
7.  Evidence of insurability, including conditions arising out of acts of domestic 
violence.
8.  Disability.
(b)  An insurer offering an individual health benefit plan or a self-insured 
health plan may not require any individual, as a condition of enrollment or 
continued enrollment under the plan, to pay, on the basis of any health status-
related factor under par. (a) with respect to the individual or a dependent of the 
individual, a premium or contribution or a deductible, copayment, or coinsurance 
amount that is greater than the premium or contribution or deductible, copayment, 
or coinsurance amount, respectively, for an otherwise similarly situated individual 
enrolled under the plan.
(c)  Nothing in this subsection prevents an insurer offering an individual 
health benefit plan or a self-insured health plan from establishing premium 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1649 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2922
discounts or rebates or modifying otherwise applicable cost sharing in return for 
adherence to programs of health promotion and disease prevention.
(4)  PREMIUM  RATE  VARIATION .  A health benefit plan offered on the individual 
or small employer market or a self-insured health plan may vary premium rates for 
a specific plan based only on the following considerations:
(a)  Whether the policy or plan covers an individual or a family.
(b)  Rating area in the state, as established by the commissioner.
(c)  Age, except that the rate may not vary by more than 3 to 1 for adults over 
the age groups and the age bands shall be consistent with recommendations of the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
(d)  Tobacco use, except that the rate may not vary by more than 1.5 to 1.
(5)  STATEWIDE  RISK POOL .  An insurer offering a health benefit plan may not 
segregate enrollees into risk pools other than a single statewide risk pool for the 
individual market and a single statewide risk pool for the small employer market or 
a single statewide risk pool that combines the individual and small employer 
markets.
(6)  ANNUAL  AND LIFETIME  LIMITS .  An individual or group health benefit plan 
or a self-insured health plan may not establish any of the following:
(a)  Lifetime limits on the dollar value of benefits for an enrollee or a 
dependent of an enrollee under the plan.
(b)  Annual limits on the dollar value of benefits for an enrollee or a dependent 
of an enrollee under the plan.
(7)  COST SHARING  MAXIMUM .  A health benefit plan offered on the individual 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1650 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2922
or small employer market may not require an enrollee under the plan to pay more in 
cost sharing than the maximum amount calculated under 42 USC 18022 (c), 
including the annual indexing of the limits.
(8)  MEDICAL  LOSS  RATIO .  (a)  In this subsection, Xmedical loss ratio Y means 
the proportion, expressed as a percentage, of premium revenues spent by a health 
benefit plan on clinical services and quality improvement.
(b)  A health benefit plan on the individual or small employer market shall 
have a medical loss ratio of at least 80 percent.
(c)  A group health benefit plan other than one described under par. (b) shall 
have a medical loss ratio of at least 85 percent.
(9)  ACTUARIAL  VALUES  OF PLAN  TIERS .  Any health benefit plan offered on the 
individual or small employer market shall provide a level of coverage that is 
designed to provide benefits that are actuarially equivalent to at least 60 percent of 
the full actuarial value of the benefits provided under the plan.
SECTION  2923 .  632.746 (1) (a) of the statutes is renumbered 632.746 (1) and 
amended to read:
632.746 (1)  Subject to subs. (2) and (3), an An insurer that offers a group 
health benefit plan may, with respect to a participant or beneficiary under the plan, 
not impose a preexisting condition exclusion only if the exclusion relates to a 
condition, whether physical or mental, regardless of the cause of the condition, for 
which medical advice, diagnosis, care or treatment was recommended or received 
within the 6-month period ending on the participant [s or beneficiary [s enrollment 
date under the plan on a participant or beneficiary under the plan.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1651 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2924
SECTION  2924 .  632.746 (1) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2925 .  632.746 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.746 (2) (a)  An insurer offering a group health benefit plan may not treat 
impose a preexisting condition exclusion based on genetic information as a 
preexisting condition under sub. (1) without a diagnosis of a condition related to the 
information.
SECTION  2926 .  632.746 (2) (c), (d) and (e) of the statutes are repealed.
SECTION  2927 .  632.746 (3) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2928 .  632.746 (3) (d) 1. of the statutes is renumbered 632.746 (3) (d).
SECTION  2929 .  632.746 (3) (d) 2. and 3. of the statutes are repealed.
SECTION  2930 .  632.746 (5) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2931 .  632.746 (8) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.746 (8) (a) (intro.)  A health maintenance organization that offers a group 
health benefit plan and that does not impose any preexisting condition exclusion 
under sub. (1) with respect to a particular coverage option may impose an affiliation 
period for that coverage option, but only if all of the following apply:
SECTION  2932 .  632.748 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.748 (2)  An insurer offering a group health benefit plan may not require 
any individual, as a condition of enrollment or continued enrollment under the 
plan, to pay, on the basis of any health status-related factor with respect to the 
individual or a dependent of the individual, a premium or contribution or a 
deductible, copayment, or coinsurance amount that is greater than the premium or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1652 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2932
contribution or deductible, copayment, or coinsurance amount, respectively, for  a  
an otherwise similarly situated individual enrolled under the plan.
SECTION  2933 .  632.7495 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.7495 (4) (b)  The coverage has a term of not more than 12 3 months.
SECTION  2934 .  632.7495 (4) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.7495 (4) (c)  The coverage term aggregated with all consecutive periods of 
the insurer [s coverage of the insured by individual health benefit plan coverage not 
required to be renewed under this subsection does not exceed 18 6 months.  For 
purposes of this paragraph, coverage periods are consecutive if there are no more 
than 63 days between the coverage periods.
SECTION  2935 .  632.7496 of the statutes is created to read:
632.7496   Coverage requirements for short-term plans.   (1)  DEFINITION .  
In this section, Xshort-term, limited duration plan Y means an individual health 
benefit plan described in s. 632.7495 (4).
(2)  GUARANTEED  ISSUE .  An insurer that offers a short-term, limited duration 
plan shall accept every individual in this state who applies for coverage regardless 
of whether the individual has a preexisting condition.
(3)  PROHIBITING  DISCRIMINATION  BASED  ON HEALTH  STATUS .  (a)  An insurer 
that offers a short-term, limited duration plan may not establish rules for the 
eligibility of any individual to enroll, or for the continued eligibility of any 
individual to remain enrolled, under a short-term, limited duration plan based on 
any of the following health status-related factors with respect to the individual or a 
dependent of the individual:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1653 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2935
1.  Health status.
2.  Medical condition, including both physical and mental illnesses.
3.  Claims experience.
4.  Receipt of health care.
5.  Medical history.
6.  Genetic information.
7.  Evidence of insurability, including conditions arising out of acts of domestic 
violence.
8.  Disability.
(b)  An insurer that offers a short-term, limited duration plan may not require 
any individual, as a condition of enrollment or continued enrollment under the 
short-term, limited duration plan, to pay, on the basis of any health status-related 
factor described under par. (a) with respect to the individual or a dependent of the 
individual, a premium or contribution or a deductible, copayment, or coinsurance 
amount that is greater than the premium or contribution or deductible, copayment, 
or coinsurance amount respectively for a similarly situated individual enrolled 
under the short-term, limited duration plan.
(4)  PREMIUM  RATE  VARIATION .  An insurer that offers a short-term, limited 
duration plan may vary premium rates for a specific short-term, limited duration 
plan based only on the following considerations:
(a)  Whether the short-term, limited duration plan covers an individual or a 
family.
(b)  Rating area in the state, as established by the commissioner.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1654 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2935
(c)  Age, except that the rate may not vary by more than 3 to 1 for adults over 
the age groups and the age bands shall be consistent with recommendations of the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
(d)  Tobacco use, except that the rate may not vary by more than 1.5 to 1.
(5)  ANNUAL  AND LIFETIME  LIMITS .  A short-term, limited duration plan may 
not establish any of the following:
(a)  Lifetime limits on the dollar value of benefits for an enrollee or a 
dependent of an enrollee under the short-term, limited duration plan.
(b)  Limits on the dollar value of benefits for an enrollee or a dependent of an 
enrollee under the short-term, limited duration plan for a term of coverage or for 
the aggregate duration of the short-term, limited duration plan.
SECTION  2936 .  632.7498 of the statutes is created to read:
632.7498   Special enrollment period for pregnancy.  (1)   DEFINITIONS .  In 
this section:
(a)  XHealth benefit plan Y has the meaning given in s. 632.745 (11).
(b)  XSelf-insured health plan Y has the meaning given in s. 632.85 (1) (c).
(2)  SPECIAL  ENROLLMENT  PERIOD .  A health benefit plan or self-insured health 
plan shall allow a pregnant individual who is eligible for coverage under the plan, 
and any individual who is eligible for coverage under the plan because of a 
relationship to the pregnant individual, to enroll for coverage at any time during the 
pregnancy.  The coverage shall begin no later than the first day of the first calendar 
month in which the pregnant individual receives medical verification of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1655 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2936
pregnancy, except that a pregnant individual may direct coverage to begin on the 
first day of any month occurring during the pregnancy.
(3)  NOTICE .  An insurer offering group health insurance coverage in this state 
shall provide notice of the special enrollment period under sub. (2) at or before the 
time an individual is initially offered the opportunity to enroll for coverage under 
the plan.
SECTION  2937 .  632.76 (2) (a) and (ac) 1. and 2. of the statutes are amended to 
read:
632.76  (2) (a)  No claim for loss incurred or disability commencing after 2 
years from the date of issue of the policy may be reduced or denied on the ground 
that a disease or physical condition existed prior to the effective date of coverage, 
unless the condition was excluded from coverage by name or specific description by 
a provision effective on the date of loss.  This paragraph does not apply to a group 
health benefit plan, as defined in s. 632.745 (9), which is subject to s. 632.746, a 
disability insurance policy, as defined in s. 632.895 (1) (a), or a self-insured health 
plan, as defined in s. 632.85 (1) (c).
(ac) 1.  Notwithstanding par. (a), no No claim or loss incurred or disability 
commencing after 12 months from the date of issue of under an individual disability 
insurance policy, as defined in s. 632.895 (1) (a), may be reduced or denied on the 
ground that a disease or physical condition existed prior to the effective date of 
coverage, unless the condition was excluded from coverage by name or specific 
description by a provision effective on the date of the loss.
2.  Except as provided in subd. 3., an An individual disability insurance policy, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1656 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2937
as defined in s. 632.895 (1) (a), other than a short-term policy limited duration plan 
subject to s. 632.7495 (4) and (5), may not define a preexisting condition more 
restrictively than a condition that was present before the date of enrollment for the 
coverage, whether physical or mental, regardless of the cause of the condition, for 
which and regardless of whether medical advice, diagnosis, care, or treatment was 
recommended or received within 12 months before the effective date of coverage.
SECTION  2938 .  632.76 (2) (ac) 3. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.76 (2) (ac) 3. (intro.)  Except as the commissioner provides by rule under s. 
632.7495 (5), all of the following apply to an individual disability insurance policy 
that is a short-term policy, limited duration plan subject to s. 632.7495 (4) and (5):
SECTION  2939 .  632.76 (2) (ac) 3. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
632.76 (2) (ac) 3. b.  The policy shall reduce the length of time during which a 
may not impose any preexisting condition exclusion may be imposed by the 
aggregate of the insured [s consecutive periods of coverage under the insurer [s 
individual disability insurance policies that are short-term policies subject to s. 
632.7495 (4) and (5).  For purposes of this subd. 3. b., coverage periods are 
consecutive if there are no more than 63 days between the coverage periods.
SECTION  2940 .  632.795 (4) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.795 (4) (a)  An insurer subject to sub. (2) shall provide coverage under the 
same policy form and for the same premium as it originally offered in the most 
recent enrollment period, subject only to the medical underwriting used in that 
enrollment period.  Unless otherwise prescribed by rule, the insurer may apply 
deductibles, preexisting condition limitations, waiting periods, or other limits only 
to the extent that they would have been applicable had coverage been extended at 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1657 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2940
the time of the most recent enrollment period and with credit for the satisfaction or 
partial satisfaction of similar provisions under the liquidated insurer [s policy or 
plan.  The insurer may exclude coverage of claims that are payable by a solvent 
insurer under insolvency coverage required by the commissioner or by the 
insurance regulator of another jurisdiction.  Coverage shall be effective on the date 
that the liquidated insurer [s coverage terminates.
SECTION  2941 .  632.848 of the statutes is created to read:
632.848  Exemption from prior authorization requirements.  (1)   In this 
section:
(a)  XEvaluation period Y means the period of time established by the 
commissioner by rule that is used to evaluate whether a health care provider 
qualifies for an exemption from obtaining prior authorizations under sub. (2).
(b)  XHealth benefit plan Y has the meaning given in s. 632.745 (11).
(c)  XHealth care item or service Y includes all of the following:
1.  Prescription drugs.
2.  Laboratory testing.
3.  Medical equipment.
4.  Medical supplies.
(d)  XHealth care provider Y has the meaning given in s. 146.81 (1) (a) to (p).
(e)  XPrior authorization Y means a determination by a health benefit plan, self-
insured health plans, or person contracting with a health benefit plan or self-
insured health plan that health care items or services proposed to be provided to a 
patient are medically necessary and appropriate.
(f)  XSelf-insured health plan Y has the meaning given in s. 632.85 (1) (c).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1658 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2941
(2)  The commissioner may by rule provide that any health benefit plan or self-
insured health plan that uses a prior authorization process shall exempt health 
care providers from obtaining prior authorizations for a health care item or service 
for a period of time established by the commissioner if, in the most recent 
evaluation period, the health benefit plan or self-insured health plan has approved 
or would have approved not less than the proportion of prior authorization requests 
established under sub. (3) submitted by the health care provider for the health care 
item or service.
(3)  The commissioner shall specify the proportion of prior authorization 
requests submitted by a health care provider that have to be approved for the health 
care provider to qualify for an exemption from obtaining prior authorizations under 
sub. (2).
(4)  The commissioner may specify by rule the health care items or services 
that may be subject to the exemption from obtaining prior authorizations under 
sub. (2).
(5)  The commissioner may specify how health care providers may obtain an 
exemption from obtaining prior authorizations under sub. (2) including by 
providing a process for automatic evaluation.
(6)  The commissioner may promulgate further rules necessary to implement 
this section.
SECTION  2942 .  632.851 of the statutes is created to read:
632.851  Reimbursement of emergency ambulance services.  (1)   In this 
section:
(a)  XAmbulance service provider Y has the meaning given in s. 256.01 (3).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1659 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2942
(b)  XClean claim Y means a claim that has no defect of impropriety, including a 
lack of required substantiating documentation or any particular circumstance that 
requires special treatment that prevents timely payment from being made on the 
claim.
(c)  XEmergency medical responder Y has the meaning given in s. 256.01 (4p).
(d)  XEmergency medical services practitioner Y has the meaning given in s. 
256.01 (5).
(e)  XFirefighter Y has the meaning given in s. 36.27 (3m) (a) 1m.
(f)  XHealth care provider Y has the meaning given in s. 146.81 (1) (a) to (hp).
(g)  XLaw enforcement officer Y has the meaning given in s. 165.85 (2) (c).
(h)  XSelf-insured health plan Y has the meaning given in s. 632.85 (1) (c).
(2) (a)  A disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan shall, within 
30 days after receipt of a clean claim for covered emergency ambulance services, 
promptly remit payment for the covered emergency ambulance services directly to 
the ambulance service provider.  No disability insurance policy or self-insured 
health plan may send a payment for covered emergency ambulance services to an 
enrollee.
(b)  A disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan shall respond to a 
claim for covered emergency ambulance services that is not a clean claim by sending 
a written notice, within 30 days after receipt of the claim, acknowledging the date of 
receipt of the claim and informing the ambulance service provider of one of the 
following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1660 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2942
1.  That the disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan is declining 
to pay all or part of the claim, including the specific reason or reasons for the denial.
2.  That additional information is necessary to determine if all or part of the 
claim is payable and the specific additional information that is required.
(3)  A disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan shall remit 
payment for the transportation of any patient by ambulance as a medically 
necessary emergency ambulance service if the transportation was requested by an 
emergency medical services practitioner, an emergency medical responder, a 
firefighter, a law enforcement officer, or a health care provider.
SECTION  2943 .  632.862 of the statutes is created to read:
632.862   Application of prescription drug payments.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  
In this section:
(a)  XBrand name Y has the meaning given in s. 450.12 (1) (a).
(b)  XBrand name drug Y means any of the following:
1.  A prescription drug that contains a brand name and that has no generic 
equivalent.
2.  A prescription drug that contains a brand name and has a generic 
equivalent but for which the enrollee has received prior authorization from the 
insurer offering the disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan or 
authorization from a physician to obtain the prescription drug under the disability 
insurance policy or self-insured health plan.
(c)  XDisability insurance policy Y has the meaning given in s. 632.895 (1) (a).
(d)  XPrescription drug Y has the meaning given in s. 450.01 (20).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1661 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2943
(e)  XSelf-insured health plan Y means a self-insured health plan of the state or 
a county, city, village, town, or school district.
(2)  APPLICATION  OF DISCOUNTS .  A disability insurance policy that offers a 
prescription drug benefit or a self-insured health plan shall apply to any calculation 
of an out-of-pocket maximum amount and to any deductible of the disability 
insurance policy or self-insured health plan for an enrollee the amount that any 
discount provided by the manufacturer of a brand name drug reduces the cost 
sharing amount charged to the enrollee for that brand name drug.
SECTION  2944 .  632.863 of the statutes is created to read:
632.863  Pharmaceutical representatives.   (1)  D EFINITIONS .  In this 
section:
(a)  XHealth care professional Y means a physician or other health care 
practitioner who is licensed to provide health care services or to prescribe 
pharmaceutical or biologic products.
(b)  XPharmaceutical Y means a medication that may legally be dispensed only 
with a valid prescription from a health care professional.
(c)  XPharmaceutical representative Y means an individual who markets or 
promotes pharmaceuticals to health care professionals on behalf of a 
pharmaceutical manufacturer for compensation.
(2)  LICENSURE .  Beginning on the first day of the 12th month beginning after 
the effective date of this subsection .... [LRB inserts date], no individual may act as 
a pharmaceutical representative in this state without being licensed by the 
commissioner as a pharmaceutical representative under this subsection.  In order 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1662 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2944
to obtain a license under this subsection, the individual shall apply to the 
commissioner in the form and manner prescribed by the commissioner and shall 
pay the fee under s. 601.31 (1) (nv).  The term of a license issued under this 
subsection is one year, and the license is renewable.
(3)  DISPLAY  OF LICENSE .  A pharmaceutical representative licensed under sub. 
(2) shall display the pharmaceutical representative [s license during each visit with 
a health care professional.
(4)  ENFORCEMENT .  (a)  Any individual who violates this section or any rules 
promulgated under this section shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than 
$3,000 for each offense.  Each day of continued violation constitutes a separate 
offense.
(b)  The commissioner may suspend or revoke the license of a pharmaceutical 
representative who violates this section or any rules promulgated under this 
section.  A suspended or revoked license under this paragraph may not be 
reinstated until the pharmaceutical representative remedies all violations related 
to the suspension or revocation and pays all assessed penalties and fees.
(5)  RULES .  The commissioner shall promulgate rules to implement this 
section, including rules that require pharmaceutical representatives to complete 
continuing educational coursework as a condition of licensure.
SECTION  2945 .  632.864 of the statutes is created to read:
632.864  Pharmacy services administrative organizations .  (1)  
DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XAdministrative service Y means any of the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1663 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2945
1.  Assisting with claims.
2.  Assisting with audits.
3.  Providing centralized payment.
4.  Performing certification in a specialized care program.
5.  Providing compliance support.
6.  Setting flat fees for generic drugs.
7.  Assisting with store layout.
8.  Managing inventory.
9.  Providing marketing support.
10.  Providing management and analysis of payment and drug dispensing 
data.
11.  Providing resources for retail cash cards.
(b)  XIndependent pharmacy Y means a pharmacy operating in this state that is 
licensed under s. 450.06 or 450.065 and is under common ownership with no more 
than 2 other pharmacies.
(c)  XPharmacy benefit manager Y has the meaning given in s. 632.865 (1) (c).
(d)  XPharmacy services administrative organization Y means an entity 
operating in this state that does all of the following:
1.  Contracts with an independent pharmacy to conduct business with a 3rd-
party payer on the independent pharmacy [s behalf.
2.  Provides at least one administrative service to an independent pharmacy 
and negotiates and enters into a contract with a 3rd-party payer or pharmacy 
benefit manager on behalf of the independent pharmacy.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1664 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2945
(e)  XThird-party payer Y means an entity, including a plan sponsor, health 
maintenance organization, or insurer, operating in this state that pays or insures 
health, medical, or prescription drug expenses on behalf of beneficiaries.
(2)  LICENSURE .  (a)  Beginning on the first day of the 12th month beginning 
after the effective date of this paragraph .... [LRB inserts date], no person may 
operate as a pharmacy services administrative organization without being licensed 
by the commissioner as a pharmacy services administrative organization under this 
subsection.  In order to obtain a license under this paragraph, the person shall 
apply to the commissioner in the form and manner prescribed by the commissioner.  
The application for licensure under this paragraph shall include all of the following:
1.  The name, address, telephone number, and federal employer identification 
number of the applicant.
2.  The name, business address, and telephone number of a contact person for 
the applicant.
3.  The fee under s. 601.31 (1) (nw).
4.  Evidence of financial responsibility of at least $1,000,000.
5.  Any other information required by the commissioner.
(b)  The term of a license issued under par. (a) shall be 2 years from the date of 
issuance.
(c)  A license issued under par. (a) may be renewed.  Renewal applications shall 
be submitted to the commissioner on a form provided by the commissioner and shall 
include all the items described in par. (a) 1. to 5.  A renewal application under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1665 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2945
paragraph may not be submitted more than 90 days prior to the end of the term of 
the license being renewed.
(3)  DISCLOSURE  TO THE COMMISSIONER .  (a)  A pharmacy services 
administrative organization licensed under sub. (2) shall disclose to the 
commissioner the extent of any ownership or control of the pharmacy services 
administrative organization by an entity that does any of the following:
1.  Provides pharmacy services.
2.  Provides prescription drug or device services.
3.  Manufactures, sells, or distributes prescription drugs, biologicals, or 
medical devices.
(b)  A pharmacy services administrative organization licensed under sub. (2) 
shall notify the commissioner in writing within 5 days of any material change in its 
ownership or control relating to an entity described in par. (a).
(4)  RULES .  The commissioner may promulgate rules to implement this 
section.
SECTION  2946 .  632.865 (2m) of the statutes is created to read:
632.865 (2m)  FIDUCIARY  DUTY  AND DISCLOSURES  TO HEALTH  BENEFIT  PLAN  
SPONSORS .  (a)  A pharmacy benefit manager owes a fiduciary duty to the health 
benefit plan sponsor to act according to the health benefit plan sponsor [s 
instructions and in the best interests of the health benefit plan sponsor.
(b)  A pharmacy benefit manager shall annually provide, no later than the 
date and using the method prescribed by the commissioner by rule, the health 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1666 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2946
benefit plan sponsor all of the following information from the previous calendar 
year:
1.  The indirect profit received by the pharmacy benefit manager from owning 
any interest in a pharmacy or service provider.
2.  Any payment made by the pharmacy benefit manager to a consultant or 
broker who works on behalf of the health benefit plan sponsor.
3.  From the amounts received from all drug manufacturers, the amounts 
retained by the pharmacy benefit manager, and not passed through to the health 
benefit plan sponsor, that are related to the health benefit plan sponsor [s claims or 
bona fide service fees.
4.  The amounts, including pharmacy access and audit recovery fees, received 
from all pharmacies that are in the pharmacy benefit manager [s network or have a 
contract to be in the network and, from these amounts, the amount retained by the 
pharmacy benefit manager and not passed through to the health benefit plan 
sponsor.
SECTION  2947 .  632.868 of the statutes is created to read:
632.868  Insulin safety net programs.  (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XManufacturer Y means a person engaged in the manufacturing of insulin 
that is self-administered on an outpatient basis.
(b)  XNavigator Y has the meaning given in s. 628.90 (3).
(c)  XPatient assistance program Y means a program established by a 
manufacturer under sub. (3) (a).
(d)  XPharmacy Y means an entity licensed under s. 450.06 or 450.065.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1667 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
(e)  XUrgent need of insulin Y means having less than a 7-day supply of insulin 
readily available for use and needing insulin in order to avoid the likelihood of 
suffering a significant health consequence.
(f)  XUrgent need safety net program Y means a program established by a 
manufacturer under sub. (2) (a).
(2)  URGENT  NEED  SAFETY  NET PROGRAM .  (a)  Establishment of program .  No 
later than July 1, 2026, each manufacturer shall establish an urgent need safety net 
program to make insulin available in accordance with this subsection to individuals 
who meet the eligibility requirements under par. (b).
(b)  Eligible individual.  An individual shall be eligible to receive insulin under 
an urgent need safety net program if all of the following conditions are met:
1.  The individual is in urgent need of insulin.
2.  The individual is a resident of this state.
3.  The individual is not receiving public assistance under ch. 49.
4.  The individual is not enrolled in prescription drug coverage through an 
individual or group health plan that limits the total cost sharing amount, including 
copayments, deductibles, and coinsurance, that an enrollee is required to pay for a 
30-day supply of insulin to no more than $75, regardless of the type or amount of 
insulin prescribed.
5.  The individual has not received insulin under an urgent need safety net 
program within the previous 12 months, except as allowed under par. (d).
(c)  Provision of insulin under an urgent need safety net program .  1.  In order 
to receive insulin under an urgent need safety net program, an individual who 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1668 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
meets the eligibility requirements under par. (b) shall provide a pharmacy with all 
of the following:
a.  A completed application, on a form prescribed by the commissioner that 
shall include an attestation by the individual, or the individual [s parent or legal 
guardian if the individual is under the age of 18, that the individual meets all of the 
eligibility requirements under par. (b).
b.  A valid insulin prescription.
c.  A valid Wisconsin driver [s license or state identification card.  If the 
individual is under the age of 18, the individual [s parent or legal guardian shall 
meet this requirement.
2.  Upon receipt of the information described in subd. 1. a. to c., the pharmacist 
shall dispense a 30-day supply of the prescribed insulin to the individual.  The 
pharmacy shall also provide the individual with the information sheet described in 
sub. (8) (b) 2. and the list of navigators described in sub. (8) (c).  The pharmacy may 
collect a copayment, not to exceed $35, from the individual to cover the pharmacy [s 
costs of processing and dispensing the insulin.  The pharmacy shall notify the 
health care practitioner who issued the prescription no later than 72 hours after the 
insulin is dispensed.
3.  A pharmacy that dispenses insulin under subd. 2. may submit to the 
manufacturer, or the manufacturer [s vendor, a claim for payment that is in 
accordance with the national council for prescription drug programs [ standards for 
electronic claims processing, except that no claim may be submitted if the 
manufacturer agrees to send the pharmacy a replacement of the same insulin in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1669 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
the amount dispensed.  If the pharmacy submits an electronic claim, the 
manufacturer or vendor shall reimburse the pharmacy in an amount that covers 
the pharmacy [s acquisition cost.
4.  A pharmacy that dispenses insulin under subd. 2. shall retain a copy of the 
application form described in subd. 1. a.
(d)  Eligibility of certain individuals .  An individual who has applied for public 
assistance under ch. 49 but for whom a determination of eligibility has not been 
made or whose coverage has not become effective or an individual who has an 
appeal pending under sub. (3) (c) 4. may access insulin under this subsection if the 
individual is in urgent need of insulin.  To access a 30-day supply of insulin, the 
individual shall attest to the pharmacy that the individual is described in this 
paragraph and comply with par. (c) 1.
(3)  PATIENT  ASSISTANCE  PROGRAM .  (a)  Establishment of program .  No later 
than July 1, 2026, each manufacturer shall establish a patient assistance program 
to make insulin available in accordance with this subsection to individuals who 
meet the eligibility requirements under par. (b).  Under the patient assistance 
program, the manufacturer shall do all of the following:
1.  Provide the commissioner with information regarding the patient 
assistance program, including contact information for individuals to call for 
assistance in accessing the patient assistance program.
2.  Provide a hotline for individuals to call or access between 8 a.m. and 10 p.m. 
on weekdays and between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. on Saturdays.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1670 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
3.  List the eligibility requirements under par. (b) on the manufacturer [s 
website.
4.  Maintain the privacy of all information received from an individual 
applying for or participating in the patient assistance program and not sell, share, 
or disseminate the information unless required under this section or authorized, in 
writing, by the individual.
(b)  Eligible individual .  An individual shall be eligible to receive insulin under 
a patient assistance program if all of the following conditions are met:
1.  The individual is a resident of this state.
2.  The individual, or the individual [s parent or legal guardian if the individual 
is under the age of 18, has a valid Wisconsin driver [s license or state identification 
card.
3.  The individual has a valid insulin prescription.
4.  The family income of the individual does not exceed 400 percent of the 
poverty line as defined and revised annually under 42 USC 9902 (2) for a family the 
size of the individual [s family.
5.  The individual is not receiving public assistance under ch. 49.
6.  The individual is not eligible to receive health care through a federally 
funded program or receive prescription drug benefits through the U.S. department 
of veterans affairs, except that this subdivision does not apply to an individual who 
is enrolled in a policy under Part D of Medicare under 42 USC 1395w-101 et seq. if 
the individual has spent at least $1,000 on prescription drugs in the current 
calendar year.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1671 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
7.  The individual is not enrolled in prescription drug coverage through an 
individual or group health plan that limits the total cost sharing amount, including 
copayments, deductibles, and coinsurance, that an enrollee is required to pay for a 
30-day supply of insulin to no more than $75, regardless of the type or amount of 
insulin needed.
(c)  Application for patient assistance program .  1.  An individual may apply to 
participate in a patient assistance program by filing an application with the 
manufacturer that established the patient assistance program, the individual [s 
health care practitioner if the practitioner participates in the patient assistance 
program, or a navigator included on the list under sub. (8) (c).   A health care 
practitioner or navigator shall immediately submit the application to the 
manufacturer.  Upon receipt of an application, the manufacturer shall determine 
the individual [s eligibility under par. (b) and, except as provided in subd. 2., notify 
the individual of the determination no later than 10 days after receipt of the 
application.
2.  If necessary to determine the individual [s eligibility under par. (b), the 
manufacturer may request additional information from an individual who has filed 
an application under subd. 1. no later than 5 days after receipt of the application.  
Upon receipt of the additional information, the manufacturer shall determine the 
individual [s eligibility under par. (b) and notify the individual of the determination 
no later than 3 days after receipt of the requested information.
3.  Except as provided in subd. 5., if the manufacturer determines under subd. 
1. or 2. that the individual is eligible for the patient assistance program, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1672 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
manufacturer shall provide the individual with a statement of eligibility.  The 
statement of eligibility shall be valid for 12 months and may be renewed upon a 
determination by the manufacturer that the individual continues to meet the 
eligibility requirements under par. (b).
4.  If the manufacturer determines under subd. 1. or 2. that the individual is 
not eligible for the patient assistance program, the manufacturer shall provide the 
reason for the determination in the notification under subd. 1. or 2.  The individual 
may appeal the determination by filing an appeal with the commissioner that shall 
include all of the information provided to the manufacturer under subds. 1. and 2.  
The commissioner shall establish procedures for deciding appeals under this 
subdivision.  The commissioner shall issue a decision no later than 10 days after the 
appeal is filed, and the commissioner [s decision shall be final.  If the commissioner 
determines that the individual meets the eligibility requirements under par. (b), the 
manufacturer shall provide the individual with the statement of eligibility 
described in subd. 3.
5.  In the case of an individual who has prescription drug coverage through an 
individual or group health plan,  if the manufacturer determines under subd. 1. or 2. 
that the individual is eligible for the patient assistance program but also 
determines that the individual [s insulin needs are better addressed through the use 
of the manufacturer [s copayment assistance program rather than the patient 
assistance program, the manufacturer shall inform the individual of the 
determination and provide the individual with the necessary coupons to submit to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1673 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
a pharmacy.  The individual may not be required to pay more than the copayment 
amount specified in par. (d) 2.
(d)  Provision of insulin under a patient assistance program .  1.  Upon receipt 
from an individual of the eligibility statement described in par. (c) 3. and a valid 
insulin prescription, a pharmacy shall submit an order containing the name of the 
insulin and daily dosage amount to the manufacturer.  The pharmacy shall include 
with the order the pharmacy [s name, shipping address, office telephone number, 
fax number, email address, and contact name, as well as any days or times when 
deliveries are not accepted by the pharmacy.
2.  Upon receipt of an order meeting the requirements under subd. 1., the 
manufacturer shall send the pharmacy a 90-day supply of insulin, or lesser amount 
if requested in the order, at no charge to the individual or pharmacy.  The pharmacy 
shall dispense the insulin to the individual associated with the order.  The insulin 
shall be dispensed at no charge to the individual, except that the pharmacy may 
collect a copayment from the individual to cover the pharmacy [s costs for processing 
and dispensing in an amount not to exceed $50 for each 90-day supply of insulin.  
The pharmacy may not seek reimbursement from the manufacturer or a 3rd-party 
payer.
3.  The pharmacy may submit a reorder to the manufacturer if the individual [s 
eligibility statement described in par. (c) 3. has not expired.  The reorder shall be 
treated as an order for purposes of subd. 2.
4.  Notwithstanding subds. 2. and 3., a manufacturer may send the insulin 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1674 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
directly to the individual if the manufacturer provides a mail-order service option, 
in which case the pharmacy may not collect a copayment from the individual.
(4)  EXCEPTIONS .  (a)  This section does not apply to a manufacturer that shows 
to the commissioner [s satisfaction that the manufacturer [s annual gross revenue 
from insulin sales in this state does not exceed $2,000,000.
(b)  A manufacturer may not be required to make an insulin product available 
under sub. (2) or (3) if the wholesale acquisition cost of the insulin product does not 
exceed $8, as adjusted annually based on the U.S. consumer price index for all 
urban consumers, U.S. city average, per milliliter or the applicable national council 
for prescription drug programs [ plan billing unit.
(5)  CONFIDENTIALITY .  All medical information solicited or obtained by any 
person under this section shall be subject to the applicable provisions of state law 
relating to confidentiality of medical information, including s. 610.70.
(6)  R EIMBURSEMENT  PROHIBITION .  No person, including a manufacturer, 
pharmacy, pharmacist, or 3rd-party administrator, as part of participating in an 
urgent need safety net program or patient assistance program may request or seek, 
or cause another person to request or seek, any reimbursement or other 
compensation for which payment may be made in whole or in part under a federal 
health care program, as defined in 42 USC 1320a-7b (f).
(7)  REPORTS .  (a)  Annually, no later than March 1, each manufacturer shall 
report to the commissioner all of the following information for the previous calendar 
year:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1675 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
1.  The number of individuals who received insulin under the manufacturer [s 
urgent need safety net program.
2.  The number of individuals who sought assistance under the 
manufacturer [s patient assistance program and the number of individuals who 
were determined to be ineligible under sub. (3) (c) 4.
3.  The wholesale acquisition cost of the insulin provided by the manufacturer 
through the urgent need safety net program and patient assistance program.
(b)  Annually, no later than April 1, the commissioner shall submit to the 
governor and the chief clerk of each house of the legislature, for distribution to the 
legislature under s. 13.172 (2), a report on the urgent need safety net programs and 
patient assistance programs that includes all of the following:
1.  The information provided to the commissioner under par. (a).
2.  The penalties assessed under sub. (9) during the previous calendar year, 
including the name of the manufacturer and amount of the penalty.
(8)  ADDITIONAL  RESPONSIBILITIES  OF COMMISSIONER .  (a)  Application form .  
The commissioner shall make the application form described in sub. (2) (c) 1. a. 
available on the office [s website and shall make the form available to pharmacies 
and health care providers who prescribe or dispense insulin, hospital emergency 
departments, urgent care clinics, and community health clinics.
(b)  Public outreach .  1.  The commissioner shall conduct public outreach to 
create awareness of the urgent need safety net programs and patient assistance 
programs.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1676 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
2.  The commissioner shall develop and make available on the office [s website 
an information sheet that contains all of the following information:
a.  A description of how to access insulin through an urgent need safety net 
program.
b.  A description of how to access insulin through a patient assistance 
program.
c.  Information on how to contact a navigator for assistance in accessing 
insulin through an urgent need safety net program or patient assistance program.
d.  Information on how to contact the commissioner if a manufacturer 
determines that an individual is not eligible for a patient assistance program.
e.  A notification that an individual may contact the commissioner for more 
information or assistance in accessing ongoing affordable insulin options.
(c)  Navigators .  The commissioner shall develop a training program to provide 
navigators with information and the resources necessary to assist individuals in 
accessing appropriate long-term insulin options.  The commissioner shall compile a 
list of navigators that have completed the training program and are available to 
assist individuals in accessing affordable insulin coverage options.  The list shall be 
made available on the office [s website and to pharmacies and health care 
practitioners who dispense and prescribe insulin.
(d)  Satisfaction surveys .  1.  The commissioner shall develop and conduct a 
satisfaction survey of individuals who have accessed insulin through urgent need 
safety net programs and patient assistance programs.  The survey shall ask 
whether the individual is still in need of a long-term solution for affordable insulin 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1677 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
and shall include questions about the individual [s satisfaction with all of the 
following, if applicable:
a.  Accessibility to urgent-need insulin.
b.  Adequacy of the information sheet and list of navigators received from the 
pharmacy.
c.  Helpfulness of a navigator.
d.  Ease of access in applying for a patient assistance program and receiving 
insulin from the pharmacy under the patient assistance program.
2.  The commissioner shall develop and conduct a satisfaction survey of 
pharmacies that have dispensed insulin through urgent need safety net programs 
and patient assistance programs.  The survey shall include questions about the 
pharmacy [s satisfaction with all of the following, if applicable:
a.  Timeliness of reimbursement from manufacturers for insulin dispensed by 
the pharmacy under urgent need safety net programs.
b.  Ease in submitting insulin orders to manufacturers.
c.  Timeliness of receiving insulin orders from manufacturers.
3.  The commissioner may contract with a nonprofit entity to develop and 
conduct the surveys under subds. 1. and 2. and to evaluate the survey results.
4.  No later than July 1, 2028, the commissioner shall submit to the governor 
and the chief clerk of each house of the legislature, for distribution to the legislature 
under s. 13.172 (2), a report on the results of the surveys under subds. 1. and 2.
(9)  PENALTY .  A manufacturer that violates this section may be required to 
forfeit not more than $200,000 per month of violation, with the maximum forfeiture 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1678 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2947
increasing to $400,000 per month if the manufacturer continues to be in violation 
after 6 months and increasing to $600,000 per month if the manufacturer continues 
to be in violation after one year.
SECTION  2948 .  632.869 of the statutes is created to read:
632.869   Reimbursement to federal drug pricing program 
participants.  (1)  In this section:
(a)  XCovered entity Y means an entity described in 42 USC 256b (a) (4) (A), (D), 
(E), (J), or (N) that participates in the federal drug pricing program under 42 USC 
256b, a pharmacy of the entity, or a pharmacy contracted with the entity to 
dispense drugs purchased through the federal drug pricing program under 42 USC 
256b.
(b)  XPharmacy benefit manager Y has the meaning given in s. 632.865 (1) (c).
(2)  No person, including a pharmacy benefit manager or 3rd-party payer, may 
do any of the following:
(a)  Reimburse a covered entity for a drug that is subject to an agreement 
under 42 USC 256b at a rate lower than that paid for the same drug to pharmacies 
that are not covered entities and have a similar prescription volume to that of the 
covered entity.
(b)  Assess a covered entity any fee, charge back, or other adjustment on the 
basis of the covered entity [s participation in the federal drug pricing program under 
42 USC 256b.
(3)  The commissioner may promulgate rules to implement this section and to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1679 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2948
establish minimum reimbursement rates for covered entities and any other entity 
described under 42 USC 256b (a) (4).
SECTION  2949 .  632.87 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.87 (1)  No insurer may refuse to provide or pay for benefits for health care 
services provided by a licensed health care professional on the ground that the 
services were not rendered by a physician as defined in s. 990.01 (28), unless the 
contract clearly excludes services by such practitioners, but no contract or plan may 
exclude services in violation of sub. (2), (2m), (3), (4), (4e), (4m), (5), or (6).
SECTION  2950 .  632.87 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.87 (4)  No policy, plan or contract may exclude coverage for diagnosis and 
treatment of a condition or complaint by a licensed dentist or dental therapist 
within the scope of the dentist [s or dental therapist [s license, if the policy, plan or 
contract covers diagnosis and treatment of the condition or complaint by another 
health care provider, as defined in s. 146.81 (1) (a) to (p).
SECTION  2951 .  632.87 (4e) of the statutes is created to read:
632.87 (4e)  In this subsection, Xdental therapist Y means an individual 
licensed under s. 447.04 (1m).
(b)  No policy, plan, or contract may exclude coverage for dental services, 
treatments, or procedures provided by a dental therapist within the scope of the 
dental therapist [s license if the policy, plan, or contract covers the dental services, 
treatments, or procedures when provided by another health care provider, as 
defined in s. 146.81 (1) (a) to (hp).
SECTION  2952 .  632.87 (7) of the statutes is created to read:
632.87 (7) (a)  In this subsection:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1680 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2952
1.  XHealth care provider Y has the meaning given in s. 146.81 (1) (a) to (hp).
2.  XQualified treatment trainee Y has the meaning given in s. DHS 35.03 
(17m), Wis. Adm. Code.
(b)  No policy, plan, or contract may exclude coverage for mental health or 
behavioral health treatment or services provided by a qualified treatment trainee 
within the scope of the qualified treatment trainee [s education and training if the 
policy, plan, or contract covers the mental health or behavioral health treatment or 
services when provided by another health care provider.
SECTION  2953 .  632.87 (8) of the statutes is created to read:
632.87 (8) (a)  In this subsection:
1.  XHealth care provider Y has the meaning given in s. 146.81 (1) (a) to (hp).
2.  XSubstance abuse counselor Y means a substance abuse counselor certified 
under s. 440.88.
(b)  No policy, plan, or contract may exclude coverage for alcoholism or other 
drug abuse treatment or services provided by a substance abuse counselor within 
the scope of the substance abuse counselor [s education and training if the policy, 
plan, or contract covers the alcoholism or other drug abuse treatment or services 
when provided by another health care provider.
SECTION  2954 .  632.871 of the statutes is created to read:
632.871   Telehealth services.  (1)   DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XDisability insurance policy Y has the meaning given in s. 632.895 (1) (a).
(b)  XSelf-insured health plan Y means a self-insured health plan of the state or 
a county, city, village, town, or school district.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1681 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2954
(c)  XTelehealth Y means a practice of health care delivery, diagnosis, 
consultation, treatment, or transfer of medically relevant data by means of audio, 
video, or data communications that are used either during a patient visit or a 
consultation or are used to transfer medically relevant data about a patient.  
XTelehealth Y does not include communications delivered solely by audio-only 
telephone, facsimile machine, or email unless specified otherwise by rule.
(2)  COVERAGE  DENIAL  PROHIBITED .  No disability insurance policy or self-
insured health plan may deny coverage for a treatment or service provided through 
telehealth on the basis that the treatment or service is provided through telehealth 
if that treatment or service is covered by the disability insurance policy or self-
insured health plan when provided in person.  A disability insurance policy or self-
insured health plan may limit coverage of treatments or services provided through 
telehealth to those treatments or services that are medically necessary.
(3)  CERTAIN  LIMITATIONS  ON TELEHEALTH  PROHIBITED .  A disability insurance 
policy or self-insured health plan may not subject a treatment or service provided 
through telehealth for which coverage is required under sub. (2) to any of the 
following:
(a)  Any greater deductible, copayment, or coinsurance amount than would be 
applicable if the treatment or service is provided in person.
(b)  Any policy or calendar year or lifetime benefit limit or other maximum 
limitation that is not imposed on other treatments or services covered by the 
disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan that are not provided through 
telehealth.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1682 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2954
(c)  Prior authorization requirements that are not required for the same 
treatment or service when provided in person.
(d)  Unique location requirements.
(4)  DISCLOSURE  OF COVERAGE  OF CERTAIN  TELEHEALTH  SERVICES .  A disability 
insurance policy or self-insured health plan that covers a telehealth treatment or 
service that has no equivalent in-person treatment or service, such as remote 
patient monitoring, shall specify in policy or plan materials the coverage of that 
telehealth treatment or service.
SECTION  2955 .  632.891 of the statutes is created to read:
632.891   Coverage without prior authorization for inpatient mental 
health services.   A disability insurance policy, as defined in s. 632.895 (1) (a), or 
self-insured health plan, as defined in s. 632.745 (24), that covers inpatient mental 
health services may not require prior authorization for the provision or coverage of 
those services.
SECTION  2956 .  632.895 (6) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.895 (6) (title)  E QUIPMENT  AND SUPPLIES  FOR TREATMENT  OF DIABETES ; 
INSULIN .
SECTION  2957 .  632.895 (6) of the statutes is renumbered 632.895 (6) (a) and 
amended to read:
632.895 (6) (a)  Every disability insurance policy which that provides coverage 
of expenses incurred for treatment of diabetes shall provide coverage for expenses 
incurred by the installation and use of an insulin infusion pump, coverage for all 
other equipment and supplies, including insulin or any other prescription 
medication, used in the treatment of diabetes, and coverage of diabetic self-1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1683 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2957
management education programs.  Coverage Except as provided in par. (b), 
coverage required under this subsection shall be subject to the same exclusions, 
limitations, deductibles, and coinsurance provisions of the policy as other covered 
expenses, except that insulin infusion pump coverage may be limited to the 
purchase of one pump per year and the insurer may require the insured to use a 
pump for 30 days before purchase.
SECTION  2958 .  632.895 (6) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
632.895 (6) (b) 1.  In this paragraph:
a.  XCost sharing Y means the total of any deductible, copayment, or 
coinsurance amounts imposed on a person covered under a disability insurance 
policy or self-insured health plan.
b.  XSelf-insured health plan Y has the meaning given in s. 632.85 (1) (c).
2.  Every disability insurance policy and self-insured health plan that covers 
insulin and imposes cost sharing on prescription drugs may not impose cost sharing 
on insulin in an amount that exceeds $35 for a one-month supply of insulin.
3.  Nothing in this paragraph prohibits a disability insurance policy or self-
insured health plan from imposing cost sharing on insulin in an amount less than 
the amount specified under subd. 2.  Nothing in this paragraph requires a disability 
insurance policy or self-insured health plan to impose any cost sharing on insulin.
SECTION  2959 .  632.895 (8) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.895 (8) (d)  Coverage is required under this subsection despite whether 
the woman shows any symptoms of breast cancer.  Except as provided in pars. (b), 
(c), and (e), coverage under this subsection may only be subject to exclusions and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1684 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2959
limitations, including deductibles, copayments and restrictions on excessive 
charges, that are applied to other radiological examinations covered under the 
disability insurance policy.  Coverage under this subsection may not be subject to 
any deductibles, copayments, or coinsurance.
SECTION  2960 .  632.895 (13m) of the statutes is created to read:
632.895 (13m)   PREVENTIVE  SERVICES .  (a)  In this section, Xself-insured health 
planY has the meaning given in s. 632.85 (1) (c).
(b)  Every disability insurance policy, except any disability insurance policy 
that is described in s. 632.745 (11) (b) 1. to 12., and every self-insured health plan 
shall provide coverage for all of the following preventive services:
1.  Mammography in accordance with sub. (8).
2.  Genetic breast cancer screening and counseling and preventive medication 
for adult women at high risk for breast cancer.
3.  Papanicolaou test for cancer screening for women 21 years of age or older 
with an intact cervix.
4.  Human papillomavirus testing for women who have attained the age of 30 
years but have not attained the age of 66 years.
5.  Colorectal cancer screening in accordance with sub. (16m).
6.  Annual tomography for lung cancer screening for adults who have attained 
the age of 55 years but have not attained the age of 80 years and who have health 
histories demonstrating a risk for lung cancer.
7.  Skin cancer screening for individuals who have attained the age of 10 years 
but have not attained the age of 22 years.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1685 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2960
8.  Counseling for skin cancer prevention for adults who have attained the age 
of 18 years but have not attained the age of 25 years.
9.  Abdominal aortic aneurysm screening for men who have attained the age of 
65 years but have not attained the age of 75 years and who have ever smoked.
10.  Hypertension screening for adults and blood pressure testing for adults, 
for children under the age of 3 years who are at high risk for hypertension, and for 
children 3 years of age or older.
11.  Lipid disorder screening for minors 2 years of age or older, adults 20 years 
of age or older at high risk for lipid disorders, and all men 35 years of age or older.
12.  Aspirin therapy for cardiovascular health for adults who have attained the 
age of 55 years but have not attained the age of 80 years and for men who have 
attained the age of 45 years but have not attained the age of 55 years.
13.  Behavioral counseling for cardiovascular health for adults who are 
overweight or obese and who have risk factors for cardiovascular disease.
14.  Type II diabetes screening for adults with elevated blood pressure.
15.  Depression screening for minors 11 years of age or older and for adults 
when follow-up supports are available.
16.  Hepatitis B screening for minors at high risk for infection and adults at 
high risk for infection.
17.  Hepatitis C screening for adults at high risk for infection and onetime 
hepatitis C screening for adults born in any year from 1945 to 1965.
18.  Obesity screening and management for all minors and adults with a body 
mass index indicating obesity, counseling and behavioral interventions for obese 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1686 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2960
minors who are 6 years of age or older, and referral for intervention for obesity for 
adults with a body mass index of 30 kilograms per square meter or higher.
19.  Osteoporosis screening for all women 65 years of age or older and for 
women at high risk for osteoporosis under the age of 65 years.
20.  Immunizations in accordance with sub. (14).
21.  Anemia screening for individuals 6 months of age or older and iron 
supplements for individuals at high risk for anemia who have attained the age of 6 
months but have not attained the age of 12 months.
22.  Fluoride varnish for prevention of tooth decay for minors at the age of 
eruption of their primary teeth.
23.  Fluoride supplements for prevention of tooth decay for minors 6 months of 
age or older who do not have fluoride in their water source.
24.  Gonorrhea prophylaxis treatment for newborns.
25.  Health history and physical exams for prenatal visits and for minors.
26.  Length and weight measurements for newborns and height and weight 
measurements for minors.
27.  Head circumference and weight-for-length measurements for newborns 
and minors who have not attained the age of 3 years.
28.  Body mass index for minors 2 years of age or older.
29.  Blood pressure measurements for minors 3 years of age or older and a 
blood pressure risk assessment at birth.
30.  Risk assessment and referral for oral health issues for minors who have 
attained the age of 6 months but have not attained the age of 7 years.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1687 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2960
31.  Blood screening for newborns and minors who have not attained the age of 
2 months.
32.  Screening for critical congenital health defects for newborns.
33.  Lead screenings in accordance with sub. (10).
34.  Metabolic and hemoglobin screening and screening for phenylketonuria, 
sickle cell anemia, and congenital hypothyroidism for minors including newborns.
35.  Tuberculin skin test based on risk assessment for minors one month of age 
or older.
36.  Tobacco counseling and cessation interventions for individuals who are 5 
years of age or older.
37.  Vision and hearing screening and assessment for minors including 
newborns.
38.  Sexually transmitted infection and human immunodeficiency virus 
counseling for sexually active minors.
39.  Risk assessment for sexually transmitted infection for minors who are 10 
years of age or older and screening for sexually transmitted infection for minors 
who are 16 years of age or older.
40.  Alcohol misuse screening and counseling for minors 11 years of age or 
older.
41.  Autism screening for minors who have attained the age of 18 months but 
have not attained the age of 25 months.
42.  Developmental screening and surveillance for minors including newborns.
43.  Psychosocial and behavioral assessment for minors including newborns.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1688 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2960
44.  Alcohol misuse screening and counseling for pregnant adults and a risk 
assessment for all adults.
45.  Fall prevention and counseling and preventive medication for fall 
prevention for community-dwelling adults 65 years of age or older.
46.  Screening and counseling for intimate partner violence for adult women.
47.  Well-woman visits for women who have attained the age of 18 years but 
have not attained the age of 65 years and well-woman visits for recommended 
preventive services, preconception care, and prenatal care.
48.  Counseling on, consultations with a trained provider on, and equipment 
rental for breastfeeding for pregnant and lactating women.
49.  Folic acid supplement for adult women with reproductive capacity.
50.  Iron deficiency anemia screening for pregnant and lactating women.
51.  Preeclampsia preventive medicine for pregnant adult women at high risk 
for preeclampsia.
52.  Low-dose aspirin after 12 weeks of gestation for pregnant women at high 
risk for miscarriage, preeclampsia, or clotting disorders.
53.  Screenings for hepatitis B and bacteriuria for pregnant women.
54.  Screening for gonorrhea for pregnant and sexually active females 24 years 
of age or younger and females older than 24 years of age who are at risk for 
infection.
55.  Screening for chlamydia for pregnant and sexually active females 24 years 
of age and younger and females older than 24 years of age who are at risk for 
infection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1689 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2960
56.  Screening for syphilis for pregnant women and adults who are at high risk 
for infection.
57.  Human immunodeficiency virus screening for adults who have attained 
the age of 15 years but have not attained the age of 66 years and individuals at high 
risk of infection who are younger than 15 years of age or older than 65 years of age.
58.  All contraceptives and services in accordance with sub. (17).
59.  Any services not already specified under this paragraph having an A or B 
rating in current recommendations from the U.S. preventive services task force.
60.  Any preventive services not already specified under this paragraph that 
are recommended by the federal health resources and services administration [s 
Bright Futures project.
61.  Any immunizations, not already specified under sub. (14), that are 
recommended and determined to be for routine use by the federal advisory 
committee on immunization practices.
(c)  Subject to par. (d), no disability insurance policy, except any disability 
insurance policy that is described in s. 632.745 (11) (b) 1. to 12., and no self-insured 
health plan may subject the coverage of any of the preventive services under par. (b) 
to any deductibles, copayments, or coinsurance under the policy or plan.
(d) 1.  If an office visit and a preventive service specified under par. (b) are 
billed separately by the health care provider, the disability insurance policy or self-
insured health plan may apply deductibles to and impose copayments or 
coinsurance on the office visit but not on the preventive service.
2.  If the primary reason for an office visit is not to obtain a preventive service 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1690 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2960
specified under par. (b), the disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan 
may apply deductibles to and impose copayments or coinsurance on the office visit.
3.  Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, if a preventive service 
specified under par. (b) is provided by a health care provider that is outside the 
disability insurance policy [s or self-insured health plan [s network of providers, the 
policy or plan may apply deductibles to and impose copayments or coinsurance on 
the office visit and the preventive service.  If a preventive service specified under 
par. (b) is provided by a health care provider that is outside the disability insurance 
policy[s or self-insured health plan [s network of providers because there is no 
available health care provider in the policy [s or plan [s network of providers that 
provides the preventive service, the policy or plan may not apply deductibles to or 
impose copayments or coinsurance on the preventive service.
4.  If more than one well-woman visit described under par. (b) 47. is necessary 
to provide all necessary preventive services as determined by a qualified health 
care provider and in accordance with applicable recommendations for preventive 
services, the disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan may not apply a 
deductible to or impose a copayment or coinsurance on any such well-woman visit.
SECTION  2961 .  632.895 (14) (a) 1. i. and j. of the statutes are amended to read:
632.895 (14) (a) 1. i.  Hepatitis A and B.
j.  Varicella and herpes zoster.
SECTION  2962 .  632.895 (14) (a) 1. k. to o. of the statutes are created to read:
632.895 (14) (a) 1. k.  Human papillomavirus.
L.  Meningococcal meningitis.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1691 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2962
m.  Pneumococcal pneumonia.
n.  Influenza.
o.  Rotavirus.
SECTION  2963 .  632.895 (14) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.895 (14) (b)  Except as provided in par. (d), every disability insurance 
policy, and every self-insured health plan of the state or a county, city, town, village, 
or school district, that provides coverage for a dependent of the insured shall 
provide coverage of appropriate and necessary immunizations, from birth to the age 
of 6 years, for an insured or plan participant, including a dependent who is a child 
of the insured or plan participant.
SECTION  2964 .  632.895 (14) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.895 (14) (c)  The coverage required under par. (b) may not be subject to any 
deductibles, copayments, or coinsurance under the policy or plan.  This paragraph 
applies to a defined network plan, as defined in s. 609.01 (1b), only with respect to 
appropriate and necessary immunizations provided by providers participating, as 
defined in s. 609.01 (3m), in the plan.
SECTION  2965 .  632.895 (14) (d) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
632.895 (14) (d) 3.  A health care plan offered by a limited service health 
organization, as defined in s. 609.01 (3), or by a preferred provider plan, as defined 
in s. 609.01 (4), that is not a defined network plan, as defined in s. 609.01 (1b).
SECTION  2966 .  632.895 (14m) of the statutes is created to read:
632.895 (14m)   ESSENTIAL  HEALTH  BENEFITS .  (a)  In this subsection, Xself-
insured health plan Y has the meaning given in s. 632.85 (1) (c).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1692 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2966
(b)  On a date specified by the commissioner, by rule, every disability 
insurance policy, except as provided in par. (g), and every self-insured health plan 
shall provide coverage for essential health benefits as determined by the 
commissioner, by rule, subject to par. (c).
(c)  In determining the essential health benefits for which coverage is required 
under par. (b), the commissioner shall do all of the following:
1.  Include benefits, items, and services in, at least, all of the following 
categories:
a.  Ambulatory patient services.
b.  Emergency services.
c.  Hospitalization.
d.  Maternity and newborn care.
e.  Mental health and substance use disorder services, including behavioral 
health treatment.
f.  Prescription drugs.
g.  Rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices.
h.  Laboratory services.
i.  Preventive and wellness services and chronic disease management.
j.  Pediatric services, including oral and vision care.
2.  Conduct a survey of employer-sponsored coverage to determine benefits 
typically covered by employers and ensure that the scope of essential health 
benefits for which coverage is required under this subsection is equal to the scope of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1693 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2966
benefits covered under a typical disability insurance policy offered by an employer 
to its employees.
3.  Ensure that essential health benefits reflect a balance among the 
categories described in subd. 1. such that benefits are not unduly weighted toward 
one category.
4.  Ensure that essential health benefit coverage is provided with no or limited 
cost-sharing requirements.
5.  Require that disability insurance policies and self-insured health plans do 
not make coverage decisions, determine reimbursement rates, establish incentive 
programs, or design benefits in ways that discriminate against individuals because 
of their age, disability, or expected length of life.
6.  Establish essential health benefits in a way that takes into account the 
health care needs of diverse segments of the population, including women, children, 
persons with disabilities, and other groups.
7.  Ensure that essential health benefits established under this subsection are 
not subject to a coverage denial based on an insured [s or plan participant [s age, 
expected length of life, present or predicted disability, degree of dependency on 
medical care, or quality of life.
8.  Require that disability insurance policies and self-insured health plans 
cover emergency department services that are essential health benefits without 
imposing any requirement to obtain prior authorization for those services and 
without limiting coverage for services provided by an emergency services provider 
that is not in the provider network of a policy or plan in a way that is more 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1694 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2966
restrictive than requirements or limitations that apply to emergency services 
provided by a provider that is in the provider network of the policy or plan.
9.  Require a disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan to apply to 
emergency department services that are essential health benefits provided by an 
emergency department provider that is not in the provider network of the policy or 
plan the same copayment amount or coinsurance rate that applies if those services 
are provided by a provider that is in the provider network of the policy or plan.
(d)  The commissioner shall periodically update, by rule, the essential health 
benefits under this subsection to address any gaps in access to coverage.
(e)  If an essential health benefit is also subject to mandated coverage 
elsewhere under this section and the coverage requirements are not identical, the 
disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan shall provide coverage under 
whichever subsection provides the insured or plan participant with more 
comprehensive coverage of the medical condition, item, or service.
(f)  Nothing in this subsection or rules promulgated under this subsection 
prohibits a disability insurance policy or a self-insured health plan from providing 
benefits in excess of the essential health benefit coverage required under this 
subsection.
(g)  This subsection does not apply to any disability insurance policy that is 
described in s. 632.745 (11) (b) 1. to 12.
SECTION  2967 .  632.895 (15m) of the statutes is created to read:
632.895 (15m)   COVERAGE  OF INFERTILITY  SERVICES .  (a)  In this subsection:
1.  XDiagnosis of and treatment for infertility Y means any recommended 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1695 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2967
procedure or medication to treat infertility at the direction of a physician that is 
consistent with established, published, or approved medical practices or 
professional guidelines from the American College of Obstetricians and 
Gynecologists, or its successor organization, or the American Society for 
Reproductive Medicine, or its successor organization.
2.  XInfertility Y means a disease, condition, or status characterized by any of 
the following:
a.  The failure to establish a pregnancy or carry a pregnancy to a live birth 
after regular, unprotected sexual intercourse for, if the woman is under the age of 
35, no longer than 12 months or, if the woman is 35 years of age or older, no longer 
than 6 months, including any time during those 12 months or 6 months that the 
woman has a pregnancy that results in a miscarriage.
b.  An individual [s inability to reproduce either as a single individual or with a 
partner without medical intervention.
c.  A physician [s findings based on a patient [s medical, sexual, and 
reproductive history, age, physical findings, or diagnostic testing.
3.  XSelf-insured health plan Y means a self-insured health plan of the state or 
a county, city, village, town, or school district.
4.  XStandard fertility preservation service Y means a procedure that is 
consistent with established medical practices or professional guidelines published 
by the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, or its successor organization, or 
the American Society of Clinical Oncology, or its successor organization, for a 
person who has a medical condition or is expected to undergo medication therapy, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1696 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2967
surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, or other medical treatment that is recognized by 
medical professionals to cause a risk of impairment to fertility.
(b)  Subject to pars. (c) to (e), every disability insurance policy and self-insured 
health plan that provides coverage for medical or hospital expenses shall cover 
diagnosis of and treatment for infertility and standard fertility preservation 
services.  Coverage required under this paragraph includes at least 4 completed 
oocyte retrievals with unlimited embryo transfers, in accordance with the 
guidelines of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, or its successor 
organization, and single embryo transfer when recommended and medically 
appropriate.
(c) 1.  A disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan may not do any 
of the following:
a.  Impose any exclusion, limitation, or other restriction on coverage required 
under par. (b) based on a covered individual [s participation in fertility services 
provided by or to a 3rd party.
b.  Impose any exclusion, limitation, or other restriction on coverage of 
medications that are required to be covered under par. (b) that are different from 
those imposed on any other prescription medications covered under the policy or 
plan.
c.  Impose any exclusion, limitation, cost-sharing requirement, benefit 
maximum, waiting period, or other restriction on coverage that is required under 
par. (b) of diagnosis of and treatment for infertility and standard fertility 
preservation services that is different from an exclusion, limitation, cost-sharing 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1697 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2967
requirement, benefit maximum, waiting period, or other restriction imposed on 
benefits for services that are covered by the policy or plan and that are not related to 
infertility.
2.  A disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan shall provide 
coverage required under par. (b) to any covered individual under the policy or plan, 
including any covered spouse or nonspouse dependent, to the same extent as other 
pregnancy-related benefits covered under the policy or plan.
(d)  The commissioner, after consulting with the department of health services 
on appropriate treatment for infertility, shall promulgate any rules necessary to 
implement this subsection.  Before the promulgation of rules, disability insurance 
policies and self-insured health plans are considered to comply with the coverage 
requirements of par. (b) if the coverage conforms to the standards of the American 
Society for Reproductive Medicine.
(e)  This subsection does not apply to a disability insurance policy that is 
described under s. 632.745 (11) (b) 1. to 12.
SECTION  2968 .  632.895 (16m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.895 (16m)  (b)  The coverage required under this subsection may be subject 
to any limitations, or exclusions, or cost-sharing provisions that apply generally 
under the disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan.  The coverage 
required under this subsection may not be subject to any deductibles, copayments, 
or coinsurance.
SECTION  2969 .  632.895 (17) (b) 1m. of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1698 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2969
632.895 (17) (b) 1m.  Oral contraceptives that are lawfully furnished over the 
counter without a prescription.
SECTION  2970 .  632.895 (17) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
632.895 (17) (b) 2.  Outpatient consultations, examinations, procedures, and 
medical services that are necessary to prescribe, administer, maintain, or remove a 
contraceptive, if covered for any other drug benefits under the policy or plan 
sterilization procedures, and patient education and counseling for all females with 
reproductive capacity.
SECTION  2971 .  632.895 (17) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.895 (17) (c)  Coverage under par. (b) may be subject only to the exclusions, 
and limitations, or cost-sharing provisions that apply generally to the coverage of 
outpatient health care services, preventive treatments and services, or prescription 
drugs and devices that is provided under the policy or self-insured health plan.  A 
disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan may not apply a deductible or 
impose a copayment or coinsurance to at least one of each type of contraceptive 
method approved by the federal food and drug administration for which coverage is 
required under this subsection.  The disability insurance policy or self-insured 
health plan may apply reasonable medical management to a method of 
contraception to limit coverage under this subsection that is provided without being 
subject to a deductible, copayment, or coinsurance to prescription drugs without a 
brand name.  The disability insurance policy or self-insured health plan may apply 
a deductible or impose a copayment or coinsurance for coverage of a contraceptive 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1699 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2971
that is prescribed for a medical need if the services for the medical need would 
otherwise be subject to a deductible, copayment, or coinsurance.
SECTION  2972 .  632.897 (11) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
632.897 (11) (a)  Notwithstanding subs. (2) to (10), the commissioner may 
promulgate rules establishing standards requiring insurers to provide continuation 
of coverage for any individual covered at any time under a group policy who is a 
terminated insured or an eligible individual under any federal program that 
provides for a federal premium subsidy for individuals covered under continuation 
of coverage under a group policy, including rules governing election or extension of 
election periods, notice, rates, premiums, premium payment, application of 
preexisting condition exclusions, election of alternative coverage, and status as an 
eligible individual, as defined in s. 149.10 (2t), 2011 stats.
SECTION  2973 .  655.001 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 655.001 (1r).
SECTION  2974 .  655.001 (1g) of the statutes is created to read:
655.001 (1g)  XAdvanced practice registered nurse Y means an individual who 
is licensed under s. 441.09, who has qualified to practice independently in his or her 
recognized role under s. 441.09 (3m) (b), and who practices advanced practice 
registered nursing, as defined under s. 441.001 (1c), outside of a collaborative 
relationship with a physician or dentist, as described under s. 441.09 (3m) (a) 1., or 
other employment relationship.
SECTION  2975 .  655.001 (7t) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.001 (7t)  XHealth care practitioner Y means a health care professional, as 
defined in s. 180.1901 (1m), who is an employee of a health care provider described 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1700 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2975
in s. 655.002 (1) (d), (e), (em), or (f) and who has the authority to provide health care 
services that are not in collaboration with a physician under s. 441.15 (2) (b) or 
under the direction and supervision of a physician or nurse anesthetist advanced 
practice registered nurse.
SECTION  2976 .  655.001 (9) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2977 .  655.002 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.002 (1) (a)  A physician or  a nurse anesthetist an advanced practice 
registered nurse for whom this state is a principal place of practice and who 
practices his or her profession in this state more than 240 hours in a fiscal year.
SECTION  2978 .  655.002 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.002 (1) (b)  A physician or  a nurse anesthetist an advanced practice 
registered nurse for whom Michigan is a principal place of practice, if all of the 
following apply:
1.  The physician or nurse anesthetist advanced practice registered nurse is a 
resident of this state.
2.  The physician or nurse anesthetist advanced practice registered nurse 
practices his or her profession in this state or in Michigan or a combination of both 
more than 240 hours in a fiscal year.
3.  The physician or nurse anesthetist advanced practice registered nurse 
performs more procedures in a Michigan hospital than in any other hospital.  In this 
subdivision, XMichigan hospital Y means a hospital located in Michigan that is an 
affiliate of a corporation organized under the laws of this state that maintains its 
principal office and a hospital in this state.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1701 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2979
SECTION  2979 .  655.002 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.002 (1) (c)  A physician or nurse anesthetist an advanced practice 
registered nurse who is exempt under s. 655.003 (1) or (3), but who practices his or 
her profession outside the scope of the exemption and who fulfills the requirements 
under par. (a) in relation to that practice outside the scope of the exemption.  For a 
physician or  a nurse anesthetist an advanced practice registered nurse who is 
subject to this chapter under this paragraph, this chapter applies only to claims 
arising out of practice that is outside the scope of the exemption under s. 655.003 (1) 
or (3).
SECTION  2980 .  655.002 (1) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.002 (1) (d)  A partnership comprised of physicians or nurse anesthetists 
advanced practice registered nurses and organized and operated in this state for the 
primary purpose of providing the medical services of physicians or nurse 
anesthetists advanced practice registered nurses.
SECTION  2981 .  655.002 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.002 (1) (e)  A corporation organized and operated in this state for the 
primary purpose of providing the medical services of physicians or nurse 
anesthetists advanced practice registered nurses.
SECTION  2982 .  655.002 (1) (em) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.002 (1) (em)  Any organization or enterprise not specified under par. (d) or 
(e) that is organized and operated in this state for the primary purpose of providing 
the medical services of physicians or nurse anesthetists advanced practice 
registered nurses.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1702 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2983
SECTION  2983 .  655.002 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.002 (2) (a)  A physician or nurse anesthetist advanced practice registered 
nurse for whom this state is a principal place of practice but who practices his or her 
profession fewer than 241 hours in a fiscal year, for a fiscal year, or a portion of a 
fiscal year, during which he or she practices his or her profession.
SECTION  2984 .  655.002 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.002 (2) (b)  Except as provided in sub. (1) (b), a physician or nurse 
anesthetist advanced practice registered nurse for whom this state is not a 
principal place of practice, for a fiscal year, or a portion of a fiscal year, during 
which he or she practices his or her profession in this state.  For a health care 
provider who elects to be subject to this chapter under this paragraph, this chapter 
applies only to claims arising out of practice that is in this state and that is outside 
the scope of an exemption under s. 655.003 (1) or (3).
SECTION  2985 .  655.003 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.003 (1)  A physician or  a nurse anesthetist an advanced practice 
registered nurse who is a state, county or municipal employee, or federal employee 
or contractor covered under the federal tort claims act, as amended, and who is 
acting within the scope of his or her employment or contractual duties.
SECTION  2986 .  655.003 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.003 (3)  Except for a physician or nurse anesthetist an advanced practice 
registered nurse who meets the criteria under s. 146.89 (5) (a), a physician or  a 
nurse anesthetist an advanced practice registered nurse who provides professional 
services under the conditions described in s. 146.89, with respect to those 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1703 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2986
professional services provided by the physician or nurse anesthetist advanced 
practice registered nurse for which he or she is covered by s. 165.25 and considered 
an agent of the department, as provided in s. 165.25 (6) (b).
SECTION  2987 .  655.005 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.005 (2) (a)  An employee of a health care provider if the employee is a 
physician or  a nurse anesthetist an advanced practice registered nurse or is a 
health care practitioner who is providing health care services that are not in 
collaboration with a physician under s. 441.15 (2) (b) or under the direction and 
supervision of a physician or nurse anesthetist advanced practice registered nurse.
SECTION  2988 .  655.005 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.005 (2) (b)  A service corporation organized under s. 180.1903 by health 
care professionals, as defined under s. 180.1901 (1m), if the board of governors 
determines that it is not the primary purpose of the service corporation to provide 
the medical services of physicians or nurse anesthetists advanced practice 
registered nurses.  The board of governors may not determine under this paragraph 
that it is not the primary purpose of a service corporation to provide the medical 
services of physicians or nurse anesthetists advanced practice registered nurses 
unless more than 50 percent of the shareholders of the service corporation are 
neither physicians nor nurse anesthetists advanced practice registered nurses.
SECTION  2989 .  655.23 (5m) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.23 (5m)   The limits set forth in sub. (4) shall apply to any joint liability of 
a physician or nurse anesthetist an advanced practice registered nurse and his or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1704 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2989
her corporation, partnership, or other organization or enterprise under s. 655.002 
(1) (d), (e), or (em).
SECTION  2990 .  655.27 (3) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
655.27 (3) (a) 4.  For a health care provider described in s. 655.002 (1) (d), (e), 
(em), or (f), risk factors and past and prospective loss and expense experience 
attributable to employees of that health care provider other than employees 
licensed as a physician or nurse anesthetist an advanced practice registered nurse.
SECTION  2991 .  655.27 (3) (b) 2m. of the statutes is amended to read:
655.27 (3) (b) 2m.  In addition to the fees and payment classifications 
described under subds. 1. and 2., the commissioner, after approval by the board of 
governors, may establish a separate payment classification for physicians satisfying 
s. 655.002 (1) (b) and a separate fee for nurse anesthetists advanced practice 
registered nurses satisfying s. 655.002 (1) (b) which take into account the loss 
experience of health care providers for whom Michigan is a principal place of 
practice.
SECTION  2992 .  655.275 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
655.275 (2)  APPOINTMENT .  The board of governors shall appoint the members 
of the council.  Section 15.09, except s. 15.09 (4) and (8), does not apply to the 
council.  The board of governors shall designate the chairperson, who shall be a 
physician, the vice chairperson, and the secretary of the council and the terms to be 
served by council members.  The council shall consist of 5 or 7 persons, not more 
than 3 of whom are physicians who are licensed and in good standing to practice 
medicine in this state and one of whom is  a nurse anesthetist an advanced practice 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1705 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2992
registered nurse who is licensed and in good standing to practice nursing in this 
state.  The chairperson or another peer review council member designated by the 
chairperson shall serve as an ex officio nonvoting member of the medical examining 
board and may attend meetings of the medical examining board, as appropriate.
SECTION  2993 .  655.275 (5) (b) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
655.275 (5) (b) 2.  If a claim was paid for damages arising out of the rendering 
of care by  a nurse anesthetist an advanced practice registered nurse, with at least 
one nurse anesthetist advanced practice registered nurse.
SECTION  2994 .  700.19 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
700.19 (2)  HUSBAND  AND WIFE  SPOUSES .  If persons named as owners in a 
document of title, transferees in an instrument of transfer, or buyers in a bill of sale 
are described in the document, instrument, or bill of sale as husband and wife 
married to each other, or are in fact husband and wife married to each other, they 
are joint tenants, unless the intent to create a tenancy in common is expressed in 
the document, instrument, or bill of sale.  This subsection applies to property 
acquired before January 1, 1986, and, if ch. 766 does not apply when the property is 
acquired, to property acquired on or after January 1, 1986.
SECTION  2995 .  704.05 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
704.05 (2)  POSSESSION  OF TENANT  AND ACCESS  BY LANDLORD .  Until the 
expiration date specified in the lease, or the termination of a periodic tenancy or 
tenancy at will, and so long as the tenant is not in default, the tenant has the right 
to exclusive possession of the premises, except as hereafter provided.  The landlord 
may upon advance notice and at reasonable times inspect the premises, allow a city, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1706 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  2995
village, town, or county inspector access for an inspection, make repairs, and show 
the premises to prospective tenants or purchasers; and if the tenant is absent from 
the premises and the landlord reasonably believes that entry is necessary to 
preserve or protect the premises, the landlord may enter without notice and with 
such force as appears necessary.
SECTION  2996 .  704.07 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
704.07   (title)  Repairs; untenantability; floodplain disclosure.
SECTION  2997 .  704.07 (2) (bm) 1. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  2998 .  704.07 (2) (bm) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
704.07 (2) (bm) 3.  The violation presents a significant threat to the 
prospective tenant [s health or safety.
SECTION  2999 .  704.07 (2) (br) of the statutes is created to read:
704.07 (2) (br)  If a landlord has actual knowledge that the premises are 
located in a floodplain, the landlord shall disclose that fact to a prospective tenant, 
before entering into a rental agreement with or accepting any earnest money or 
security deposit from the prospective tenant.
SECTION  3000 .  704.07 (5) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3001 .  705.01 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
705.01 (4)  XJoint account Y means an account, other than a marital account, 
payable on request to one or more of 2 or more parties whether or not mention is 
made of any right of survivorship.  XJoint account Y also means any account 
established with the right of survivorship on or after January 1, 1986, by 2 parties 
who claim to be husband and wife married to each other, which is payable on 
request to either or both of the parties.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1707 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3002
SECTION  3002 .  705.01 (4m) of the statutes is amended to read:
705.01 (4m)   XMarital account Y means an account established without the 
right of survivorship on or after January 1, 1986, by 2 parties who claim to be 
husband and wife married to each other, which is payable on request to either or 
both of the parties and which is designated as a marital account.  An account 
established by those parties with the right of survivorship under s. 766.58 (3) (f) or 
766.60 is a joint account.
SECTION  3003 .  706.09 (1) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
706.09 (1) (e)  Marital interests.   Homestead of the spouse of any transferor of 
an interest in real estate, if the recorded conveyance purporting to transfer the 
homestead states that the person executing it is single, unmarried, or widowed a 
surviving spouse or fails to indicate the marital status of the transferor, and if the 
conveyance has, in either case, appeared of record for 5 years.  This paragraph does 
not apply to the interest of a married person who is described of record as a holder 
in joint tenancy or of marital property with that transferor.
SECTION  3004 .  709.03 (form) A7. of the statutes is created to read:
709.03  (form)
A7.  In this form, Xflooding Y means a general or temporary condition of partial 
or complete inundation of a dwelling caused by: (a) the overflow of inland or tidal 
waters; (b) the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface waters from 
any established water source such as a river, stream, or drainage ditch; or (c) 
excessive rainfall.
SECTION  3005 .  709.03 (form) F4. and G1. of the statutes are amended to read:
709.03  (form)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1708 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3005
F4. Are you aware of the property or any portion of 
the property being located in a floodplain, 
wetland, or shoreland zoning area? Visit 
https://dnr.wisconsin.gov/topic/FloodPlains/ins
urance.html for information about flood 
insurance..... .... ....
G1. Have you filed any insurance claims relating to 
damage to this property or premises, including 
damage caused by flooding, within the last five 
years?.... .... ....
SECTION  3006 .  709.03 (form) G1m. of the statutes is created to read:
709.03  (form)
G1m.  Have you applied for financial support, other 
than an insurance claim, related to damage to 
this property or premises caused by flooding 
within the last five years?.... .... ....
SECTION  3007 .  709.033 (form) A7. of the statutes is created to read:
709.033  (form)
A7.  In this form, Xflooding Y means a general or temporary condition of partial 
or complete inundation of a dwelling caused by: (a) the overflow of inland or tidal 
waters; (b) the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface waters from 
any established water source such as a river, stream, or drainage ditch; or (c) 
excessive rainfall.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
92025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1709 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3008
SECTION  3008 .  709.033 (form) E3. of the statutes is amended to read:
709.033  (form)
E3. Are you aware of the property or any portion of 
the property being located in a floodplain, 
wetland, or shoreland zoning area? Visit 
https://dnr.wisconsin.gov/topic/FloodPlains/ins
urance.html for information about flood 
insurance..... .... ....
SECTION  3009 .  709.033 (form) F3m. and F3n. of the statutes is created to 
read:
709.033  (form)
F3m. Have you filed any insurance claims relating to 
damage to this property or premises, including 
damage caused by flooding, within the last five 
years?.... .... ....
F3n. Have you applied for financial support, other 
than an insurance claim, related to damage to 
this property or premises caused by flooding 
within the last five years?.... .... ....
SECTION  3010 .  753.06 (8) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
753.06 (8) (a)  Brown County.  The circuit has 8 branches.  Commencing 
August 1, 2026, the circuit has 10 branches.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
82025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1710 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3011
SECTION  3011 .  753.06 (8) (a) of the statutes, as affected by 2025 Wisconsin 
Act .... (this act), is amended to read:
753.06 (8) (a)  Brown County.  The circuit has  8 branches.  Commencing 
August 1, 2026, the circuit has 10 branches.
SECTION  3012 .  753.0605 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3013 .  756.04 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
756.04 (2) (b)  Each year, on a date agreed upon with the office of the director 
of state courts, the department of transportation shall compile a list that includes 
the name, address, county, date of birth, race, gender, identification number and 
renewal date of each person residing in the state who is licensed as a motor vehicle 
operator under ch. 343 or who has received an identification card under s. 343.50 or 
343.51, and social security number, as permitted allowed by law and any record 
sharing agreement between the department of transportation and the office of the 
director of state courts.  The office of the director of state courts shall establish the 
format of the list by agreement with the department of transportation.  The 
department of transportation shall transmit the list without charge to the office of 
the director of state courts, without charge. and to the clerks of court for the district 
courts of the United States within this state.  If the department of transportation 
does not have a record sharing agreement with the clerk of court for a district court 
that requires the clerk of court to keep prospective jurors [ identification numbers, 
renewal dates, and social security numbers confidential and secure from 
unauthorized access, the department of transportation shall redact that 
information from the list the department of transportation transmits to the clerk of 
court.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1711 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3014
SECTION  3014 .  756.04 (2) (c) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
756.04 (2) (c) (intro.)  The office of the director of state courts may shall use 
any all of the following lists in addition to the list provided by the department of 
transportation under par. (b) in order to create the master list of potential jurors 
compiled under par. (a).  The director may each year request any of the following 
information from the custodians of that information:
SECTION  3015 .  756.04 (2) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
756.04 (2) (d)  If the records listed in par. (c) are requested, the director of state 
courts may enter into a record sharing agreement with the custodian of the records.  
Any record sharing agreement shall be in writing for a prescribed period of time 
and Each year, on a date agreed upon with the office of the director of state courts, 
each custodian of records described in par. (c) shall compile the list maintained by 
that custodian, as allowed by law and any record sharing agreement between the 
custodian and the office of the director of state courts.  The office of the director of 
state courts shall establish the format of each list by agreement with the custodian 
that maintains the list, which shall identify data that would allow for a match of 
personally identifiable information on the list maintained by that custodian with 
personally identifiable information in the master list of potential jurors to the 
extent required to identify duplicate names and to determine current addresses of 
prospective jurors.  Any list provided under par. (c) The lists shall contain no data 
other than the data provided in par. (b).  The agreement shall establish the format 
of the list and date of transmission of the list.  Each custodian shall transmit the list 
maintained by that custodian without charge to the office of the director of state 
courts.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1712 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3016
SECTION  3016 .  757.07 (1) (e) 8. of the statutes is created to read:
757.07 (1) (e) 8.  A district judge or magistrate judge for a U.S. district court in 
the state of Wisconsin or a bankruptcy judge for a U.S. bankruptcy court in the 
state of Wisconsin.
SECTION  3017 .  758.19 (5) (bf) of the statutes is created to read:
758.19 (5) (bf)  No later than January 1, 2026, from the appropriation under s. 
20.625 (1) (d), the director of state courts shall make payments to counties totaling 
$24,596,100, which the director of state courts shall distribute as follows:
1.  For each circuit court branch in the county, $52,300.
2.  In addition to the payment under subd. 1., for each county with one or fewer 
circuit court branches, $12,400.
3.  In addition to the payment under subd. 1., for each county with more than 
one circuit court branch, a payment equal to the county [s proportion of the state 
population multiplied by the amount remaining in the appropriation under s. 
20.625 (1) (d) after the payments are made under subds. 1. and 2.
SECTION  3018 .  758.19 (5) (bm) of the statutes is created to read:
758.19 (5) (bm)  No later than July 1, 2026, from the appropriation under s. 
20.625 (1) (d), the director of state courts shall make payments to counties totaling 
$35,000,000, which the director of state courts shall distribute as follows:
1.  For each circuit court branch in the county, $74,500.
2.  In addition to the payment under subd. 1., for each county with one or fewer 
circuit court branches, $17,600.
3.  In addition to the payment under subd. 1., for each county with more than 
one circuit court branch, a payment equal to the county [s proportion of the state 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1713 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3018
population multiplied by the amount remaining in the appropriation under s. 
20.625 (1) (d) after the payments are made under subds. 1. and 2.
SECTION  3019 .  758.19 (5) (bn) of the statutes is created to read:
758.19 (5) (bn)  No later than January 1, 2027, and by every January 1 and 
July 1 thereafter, from the appropriation under s. 20.625 (1) (d), the director of state 
courts shall make payments to counties totaling $35,000,000, which the director of 
state courts shall distribute as follows:
1.  For each circuit court branch in the county, $74,500.
2.  In addition to the payment under subd. 1., for each county with one or fewer 
circuit court branches, $17,600.
3.  If, after the payments are made under subds. 1. and 2., the total of a 
county[s payments equals less than 50 percent of the sum the county received as 
grants in calendar year 2026 under s. 165.95, 2023 stats., and s. 165.955, 2023 
stats., an additional payment for such a difference.
4.  In addition to the payments under subds. 1. and 3., for each county with 
more than one circuit court branch, a payment equal to the county [s proportion of 
the state population multiplied by the amount remaining in the appropriation 
under s. 20.625 (1) (d) after the payments are made under subds. 1., 2., and 3.
SECTION  3020 .  758.19 (5) (d) of the statutes is created to read:
758.19 (5) (d)  For payments under pars. (b), (bf), (bm), and (bn), for counties 
that share the services of one or more circuit court branches, the director of state 
courts shall annually determine the proportional share of that circuit court branch 
for each county on the basis of the circuit court branch caseload in each county.
SECTION  3021 .  758.19 (5) (g) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1714 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3021
758.19 (5) (g)  A county that fails to meet the requirements under s. 165.95 
(2m) is not eligible for a payment under par. (bn) until the county establishes an 
alternatives to prosecution and incarceration program described under s. 165.95 
(3).
SECTION  3022 .  758.195 of the statutes is created to read:
758.195   Office of the marshals of the supreme court.   (1)  CREATION .  
There is created the office of the marshals of the supreme court, under the direction 
and supervision of the chief marshal of the supreme court, which shall consist of all 
of the following personnel:
(a)  The chief marshal of the supreme court.
(b)  One deputy chief marshal of the supreme court.
(c)  Deputy marshals of the supreme court.
(d)  Administrative support personnel.  
(2)  LAW ENFORCEMENT  AUTHORITY .  (a)  The office of the marshals of the 
supreme court is a law enforcement agency, as defined in s. 165.85 (2) (bv).
(b)  Marshals of the supreme court are law enforcement officers, are employed 
for the purpose of detecting and preventing crime and enforcing laws or ordinances, 
and are authorized to make arrests for violations of the laws or ordinances of this 
state.  Marshals of the supreme court shall meet the requirements of s. 165.85 (4) 
(a) 2. and 7. a., and shall agree to accept the duties of a law enforcement officer 
under the laws of this state.  Marshals of the supreme court shall have statewide 
jurisdiction.
(c)  Marshals of the supreme court shall have concurrent police power with 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1715 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3022
other authorized peace officers over any jurisdiction in which the marshal performs 
his or her duties.  Such concurrent police authority may not be construed to reduce 
or lessen the authority of the police power of the community or communities in 
which a marshal may perform his or her duties.  Marshals of the supreme court 
shall cooperate with and be responsive to the local police authorities as they meet 
and exercise their statutory responsibilities.
(d)  Marshals of the supreme court shall meet the requirements established by 
the law enforcement standards board for officer certification, police pursuit, 
recruitment, and firearms training and comply with any other statutory 
requirements applicable to a law enforcement agency.
(3)  POWERS .  The office of the marshals of the supreme court may provide 
police services to the state court system, with statewide jurisdiction; provide 
protective services for the supreme court justices and their offices; provide security 
assessments for the justices, judges, and facilities of the state court system; and 
provide safety and security support services and advanced security planning for 
circuit court proceedings.
SECTION  3023 .  765.001 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
765.001 (2)  INTENT .  It is the intent of chs. 765 to 768 to promote the stability 
and best interests of marriage and the family.  It is the intent of the legislature to 
recognize the valuable contributions of both spouses during the marriage and at 
termination of the marriage by dissolution or death.  Marriage is the institution 
that is the foundation of the family and of society.  Its stability is basic to morality 
and civilization, and of vital interest to society and the state.  The consequences of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1716 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3023
the marriage contract are more significant to society than those of other contracts, 
and the public interest must be taken into account always.  The seriousness of 
marriage makes adequate premarital counseling and education for family living 
highly desirable and courses thereon are urged upon all persons contemplating 
marriage.  The impairment or dissolution of the marriage relation generally results 
in injury to the public wholly apart from the effect upon the parties immediately 
concerned.  Under the laws of this state, marriage is a legal relationship between 2 
equal persons, a husband and wife, who owe to each other mutual responsibility 
and support.  Each spouse has an equal obligation in accordance with his or her 
ability to contribute money or services or both which are necessary for the adequate 
support and maintenance of his or her minor children and of the other spouse.  No 
spouse may be presumed primarily liable for support expenses under this 
subsection.
SECTION  3024 .  765.01 of the statutes is amended to read:
765.01   A civil contract.   Marriage, so far as its validity at law is concerned, 
is a civil contract, to which the consent of the parties capable in law of contracting 
is essential, and which creates the legal status of husband and wife spouse to each 
other.
SECTION  3025 .  765.02 (3) of the statutes is created to read:
765.02 (3)  Marriage may be contracted between persons of the same sex or 
different sexes.
SECTION  3026 .  765.03 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
765.03 (1)  No marriage shall be contracted while either of the parties has a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1717 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3026
husband or wife spouse living, nor between persons who are nearer of kin than 2nd 
cousins except that marriage may be contracted between first cousins where the 
female has attained the age of 55 years or where if either party, at the time of 
application for a marriage license, submits an affidavit signed by a physician 
stating that either party is permanently sterile or that the 2 parties are otherwise 
permanently biologically incapable of producing a child together.  Relationship 
under this section shall be computed by the rule of the civil law, whether the parties 
to the marriage are of the half or of the whole blood.  A marriage may not be 
contracted if either party has such want of understanding as renders him or her 
incapable of assenting to marriage.
SECTION  3027 .  765.16 (1m) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
765.16 (1m)  (intro.)  Marriage may be validly solemnized and contracted in 
this state only after a marriage license has been issued therefor, and only by the 
mutual declarations of the 2 parties to be joined in marriage that they take each 
takes the other as husband and wife his or her spouse, made before an authorized 
officiating person and in the presence of at least 2 competent adult witnesses other 
than the officiating person.  If one of the parties is serving on active duty in the U.S. 
armed forces or in forces incorporated in the U.S. armed forces, in a reserve unit of 
the U.S. armed forces, or in the national guard, the presence of only one competent 
adult witness other than the officiating person is required.  The following are 
authorized to be officiating persons:
SECTION  3028 .  765.16 (1m) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
765.16 (1m)  (c)  The 2 parties themselves, by mutual declarations that they 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1718 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3028
take each takes the other as husband and wife his or her spouse, in accordance with 
the customs, rules, and regulations of any religious society, denomination, or sect to 
which either of the parties may belong.
SECTION  3029 .  765.23 of the statutes is amended to read:
765.23   Immaterial irregularities otherwise.   No marriage hereafter 
contracted shall be void either by reason of the marriage license having been issued 
by a county clerk not having jurisdiction to issue the same; or by reason of any 
informality or irregularity of form in the application for the marriage license or in 
the marriage license itself, or the incompetency of the witnesses to such marriage; 
or because the marriage may have been solemnized more than 60 days after the 
date of the marriage license, if the marriage is in other respects lawful and is 
consummated with the full belief on the part of the persons so married, or either of 
them, that they have been lawfully joined in marriage.  Where a marriage has been 
celebrated in one of the forms provided for in s. 765.16 (1m), and the parties thereto 
have immediately thereafter assumed the habit and repute of husband and wife a 
married couple, and having continued the same uninterruptedly thereafter for the 
period of one year, or until the death of either of them, it shall be deemed that a 
marriage license has been issued as required by ss. 765.05 to 765.24 and 767.803.
SECTION  3030 .  765.24 of the statutes is amended to read:
765.24   Removal of impediments to subsequent marriage.   If a person 
during the lifetime of a husband or wife spouse with whom the marriage is in force, 
enters into a subsequent marriage contract in accordance with s. 765.16, and the 
parties thereto live together thereafter as husband and wife a married couple, and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1719 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3030
such subsequent marriage contract was entered into by one of the parties in good 
faith, in the full belief that the former husband or wife spouse was dead, or that the 
former marriage had been annulled, or dissolved by a divorce, or without knowledge 
of such former marriage, they the parties shall, after the impediment to their 
marriage has been removed by the death or divorce of the other party to such former 
marriage, if they continue to live together as husband and wife a married couple in 
good faith on the part of one of them, be held to have been legally married from and 
after the removal of such impediment and the issue of any children born during 
such subsequent marriage shall be considered as the marital issue children of both 
parents parties.
SECTION  3031 .  765.30 (3) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
765.30 (3) (a)  Penalty for unlawful solemnization of marriage.   Any officiating 
person who solemnizes a marriage unless the contracting parties have first 
obtained a proper marriage license as heretofore provided; or unless the parties to 
such marriage declare that they take each takes the other as husband and wife his 
or her spouse; or without the presence of competent adult witnesses as required 
under s. 765.16 (1m); or solemnizes a marriage knowing of any legal impediment 
thereto; or solemnizes a marriage more than 60 days after the date of the marriage 
license; or falsely certifies to the date of a marriage solemnized by the officiating 
person.
SECTION  3032 .  766.587 (7) (form) 9. of the statutes is amended to read:
766.587 (7) (form) 9.  BOTH SPOUSES MUST SIGN THIS AGREEMENT.  IF 
SIGNED BEFORE JANUARY 1, 1986, IT IS EFFECTIVE ON JANUARY 1, 1986, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1720 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3032
OR THE DATE THE PARTIES MARRY, WHICHEVER IS LATER.  IF SIGNED 
ON OR AFTER JANUARY 1, 1986, IT IS EFFECTIVE ON THE DATE SIGNED 
OR THE DATE THE PARTIES MARRY, WHICHEVER IS LATER.
STATUTORY INDIVIDUAL 
PROPERTY CLASSIFICATION AGREEMENT
(Pursuant to Section 766.587, Wisconsin Statutes)
This agreement is made and entered into by .... and ...., (husband and wife who 
are married) (who intend to marry) (strike one).
The parties to this agreement agree to classify all their property, including 
property owned by them now and property acquired before January 1, 1987, as the 
individual property of the owning spouse, and agree that ownership of their 
property shall be determined as if it were December 31, 1985.
This agreement terminates on January 1, 1987.
Signature .... Date ....
Print Name Here: ....
Address: ....
Signature .... Date ....
Print Name Here: ....
Address: ....
[NOTE: Each spouse should retain a copy of the agreement for himself or 
herself.]
SECTION  3033 .  766.588 (9) (form) 13. of the statutes is amended to read:
766.588 (9) (form) 13.  IF AFTER ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1721 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3033
ONE OR BOTH OF YOU ESTABLISH A DOMICILE OUTSIDE THIS STATE, 
YOU ARE URGED TO SEEK LEGAL ADVICE CONCERNING THE 
CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
STATUTORY  TERMINABLE  MARITAL
PROPERTY  CLASSIFICATION  AGREEMENT
(Pursuant to Section 766.588, Wisconsin Statutes)
This agreement is entered into by .... and .... (husband and wife who are 
married) (who intend to marry) (strike one).  The parties hereby classify all of the 
property owned by them when this agreement becomes effective, and property 
acquired during the term of this agreement, as marital property.
One spouse may terminate this agreement at any time by giving signed notice 
of termination to the other spouse.  Notice of termination by a spouse is given upon 
personal delivery or when sent by certified mail to the other spouse [s last-known 
address.  The agreement terminates 30 days after such notice is given.
The parties (have) (have not) (strike one) completed Schedule XAY, XFinancial 
Disclosure Y, attached to this agreement.  If Schedule XAY has not been completed, 
the duration of this agreement is 3 years after both parties have signed the 
agreement.  If Schedule XAY has been completed, the duration of this agreement is 
not limited to 3 years after it is signed.
IF THE DURATION OF THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT TO BE LIMITED TO 3 
YEARS, MAKE SURE SCHEDULE XAY, XFINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Y, IS 
COMPLETED AND THAT YOU HAVE REVIEWED THE SCHEDULE BEFORE 
SIGNING THE AGREEMENT.  IF YOU AND YOUR SPOUSE HAVE 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1722 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3033
PREVIOUSLY ENTERED INTO A STATUTORY TERMINABLE MARITAL 
PROPERTY CLASSIFICATION AGREEMENT WITH EACH OTHER WHICH 
WAS EFFECTIVE DURING YOUR PRESENT MARRIAGE AND YOU AND 
YOUR SPOUSE DID NOT COMPLETE SCHEDULE XAY, YOU MAY NOT 
EXECUTE THIS AGREEMENT IF YOU DO NOT COMPLETE SCHEDULE XAY.
Signature of One Spouse: ....
Date: ....
Print Name Here: ....
Residence Address: ....
(Make Sure Your Signature is Authenticated or Acknowledged Below.)
AUTHENTICATION
Signature .... authenticated this .... day of ...., .... (year)
*....
TITLE: MEMBER STATE BAR OF WISCONSIN
(If not, .... authorized by s. 706.06, Wis. Stats.)
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF WISCONSIN )
) ss.
.... County )
Personally came before me this .... day of ...., .... (year) the above named .... to 
me known to be the person who executed the foregoing instrument and 
acknowledge the same.
*....1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1723 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3033
Notary Public ...., .... County, Wisconsin.
My Commission is permanent.
(If not, state expiration date: ...., .... (year))
(Signatures may be authenticated or
acknowledged. Both are not necessary.)
*Names of persons signing in any capacity should be
typed or printed below their signatures.
Signature of Other Spouse: ....
Date: ....
Print Name Here: ....
Residence Address: ....
(Make Sure Your Signature is Authenticated or Acknowledged Below.)
AUTHENTICATION
Signature .... authenticated this .... day of ...., .... (year)
*....
TITLE: MEMBER STATE BAR OF WISCONSIN
(If not, .... authorized by s. 706.06, Wis. Stats.)
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF WISCONSIN )
) ss.
.... County )
Personally came before me this .... day of ...., .... (year) the above named .... to 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1724 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3033
me known to be the person who executed the foregoing instrument and 
acknowledge the same.
*....
Notary Public ...., .... County, Wisconsin.
My Commission is permanent.
(If not, state expiration date: ...., .... (year))
(Signatures may be authenticated or
acknowledged. Both are not necessary.)
*Names of persons signing in any capacity should be
typed or printed below their signatures.
TERMINATION  OF STATUTORY  TERMINABLE
MARITAL  PROPERTY  CLASSIFICATION  AGREEMENT
I UNDERSTAND THAT:
1.  THIS TERMINATION TAKES EFFECT 30 DAYS AFTER MY SPOUSE IS 
NOTIFIED OF THE TERMINATION, AS PROVIDED UNDER SECTION 766.588 
(4) OF THE WISCONSIN STATUTES.
2.  THIS TERMINATION IS PROSPECTIVE; IT DOES NOT AFFECT THE 
CLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTY ACQUIRED BEFORE THE TERMINATION 
BECOMES EFFECTIVE.  PROPERTY ACQUIRED AFTER THE TERMINATION 
BECOMES EFFECTIVE IS CLASSIFIED AS PROVIDED UNDER THE 
MARITAL PROPERTY LAW.
3.  IN GENERAL, THIS TERMINATION IS NOT BINDING ON 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1725 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3033
CREDITORS UNLESS THEY ARE PROVIDED A COPY OF THE TERMINATION 
BEFORE CREDIT IS EXTENDED.
The undersigned terminates the statutory terminable marital property 
classification agreement entered into by me and my spouse on .... (date last spouse 
signed the agreement) under section 766.588 of the Wisconsin Statutes.
Signature: ....
Date: ....
Print Name Here: ....
Residence Address: ....
SCHEDULE  XAY
FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE
The following general categories of assets and liabilities are not all inclusive 
and if other assets or liabilities exist they should be listed.  Assets should be listed 
according to which spouse has title (including assets owned by a spouse or the 
spouses with one or more third parties) and at their approximate market value.
Husband  Wife Spouse (Name)  Spouse (Name)  Both Names
I. A SSETS
A. Real estate (gross value)
B. Stocks, bonds and mutual funds
C. Accounts at and certificates or other 
instruments issued by financial institutions
D. Mortgages, land contracts, promissory notes 
and cash1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1726 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3033
E. Partnership interests
EL. Limited liability company interests.
F. Trust interests
G. Livestock, farm products, crops
H. Automobiles and other vehicles
I. Jewelry and personal effects
J. Household furnishings
K. Life insurance and annuities:
1. Face value
2. Cash surrender value
L. Retirement benefits (include value):
1. Pension plans
2. Profit sharing plans
3. HR-10 KEOGH plans
4. IRAs
5. Deferred compensation plans
M. Other assets not listed elsewhere
II. O BLIGATIONS  (TOTAL  OUTSTANDING  BALANCE ):
A. Mortgages and liens
B. Credit cards
C. Other obligations to financial institutions
D. Alimony, maintenance and child support (per 
month)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1727 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3033
E. Other obligations (such as other obligations to 
individuals, guarantees, contingent liabilities)
III. A NNUAL  COMPENSATION  FOR SERVICES :
(for example, wages and income from self-
employment; also include social security,
disability and similar income here)
(IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL SPACE,
ADD ADDITIONAL SHEETS)
SECTION  3034 .  766.589 (10) (form) 14. of the statutes is amended to read:
766.589 (10) (form) 14.  IF AFTER ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT 
ONE OR BOTH OF YOU ESTABLISH A DOMICILE OUTSIDE THIS STATE, 
YOU ARE URGED TO SEEK LEGAL ADVICE CONCERNING THE 
CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
STATUTORY  TERMINABLE  INDIVIDUAL
PROPERTY  CLASSIFICATION  AGREEMENT
(Pursuant to Section 766.589, Wisconsin Statutes)
This agreement is entered into by .... and .... (husband and wife who are 
married) (who intend to marry) (strike one).  The parties hereby classify the 
marital property owned by them when this agreement becomes effective, and 
property acquired during the term of this agreement which that would otherwise 
have been marital property, as the individual property of the owning spouse.  The 
parties agree that ownership of such property shall be determined by the name in 
which the property is held and, if property is not held by either or both spouses, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1728 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3034
ownership shall be determined as if the parties were unmarried persons when the 
property was acquired.
Upon the death of either spouse the surviving spouse may, except as otherwise 
provided in a subsequent marital property agreement, and regardless of whether 
this agreement has terminated, elect against the property of the decedent spouse as 
provided in section 766.589 (7) of the Wisconsin Statutes.
One spouse may terminate this agreement at any time by giving signed notice 
of termination to the other spouse.  Notice of termination by a spouse is given upon 
personal delivery or when sent by certified mail to the other spouse [s last-known 
address.  The agreement terminates 30 days after such notice is given.
The parties (have) (have not) (strike one) completed Schedule XAY, XFinancial 
Disclosure Y, attached to this agreement.  If Schedule XAY has not been completed, 
the duration of this agreement is 3 years after both parties have signed the 
agreement.  If Schedule XAY has been completed, the duration of this agreement is 
not limited to 3 years after it is signed.
IF THE DURATION OF THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT TO BE LIMITED TO 3 
YEARS, MAKE SURE THAT SCHEDULE XAY, XFINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Y, IS 
COMPLETED AND THAT YOU HAVE REVIEWED THE SCHEDULE BEFORE 
SIGNING THE AGREEMENT.  IF YOU AND YOUR SPOUSE HAVE 
PREVIOUSLY ENTERED INTO A STATUTORY TERMINABLE INDIVIDUAL 
PROPERTY CLASSIFICATION AGREEMENT WITH EACH OTHER WHICH 
WAS EFFECTIVE DURING YOUR PRESENT MARRIAGE AND YOU AND 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1729 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3034
YOUR SPOUSE DID NOT COMPLETE SCHEDULE XAY, YOU MAY NOT 
EXECUTE THIS AGREEMENT IF YOU DO NOT COMPLETE SCHEDULE XAY.
Signature of One Spouse: ....
Date: ....
Print Name Here: ....
Residence Address: ....
(Make Sure Your Signature is Authenticated or Acknowledged Below.)
AUTHENTICATION
Signature .... authenticated this .... day of ...., .... (year)
*....
TITLE: MEMBER STATE BAR OF WISCONSIN
(If not, .... authorized by s. 706.06, Wis. Stats.)
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF WISCONSIN )
) ss.
.... County )
Personally came before me this .... day of ...., .... (year) the above named .... to 
me known to be the person who executed the foregoing instrument and 
acknowledge the same.
*....
Notary Public ...., .... County, Wisconsin.
My Commission is permanent.
(If not, state expiration date: ...., .... (year))1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1730 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3034
(Signatures may be authenticated or
acknowledged. Both are not necessary.)
*Names of persons signing in any capacity should be
typed or printed below their signatures.
Signature of Other Spouse: ....
Date: ....
Print Name Here: ....
Residence Address: ....
(Make Sure Your Signature is Authenticated or Acknowledged Below.)
AUTHENTICATION
Signature .... authenticated this .... day of ...., .... (year)
*....
TITLE: MEMBER STATE BAR OF WISCONSIN
(If not, .... authorized by s. 706.06, Wis. Stats.)
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF WISCONSIN )
) ss.
.... County )
Personally came before me this .... day of ...., .... (year) the above named .... to 
me known to be the person who executed the foregoing instrument and 
acknowledge the same.
*....
Notary Public ...., .... County, Wisconsin.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1731 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3034
My Commission is permanent.
(If not, state expiration date: ...., .... (year))
(Signatures may be authenticated or
acknowledged. Both are not necessary.)
*Names of persons signing in any capacity should
be typed or printed below their signatures.
TERMINATION  OF
STATUTORY  TERMINABLE  INDIVIDUAL
PROPERTY  CLASSIFICATION  AGREEMENT
I UNDERSTAND THAT:
1.  THIS TERMINATION TAKES EFFECT 30 DAYS AFTER MY SPOUSE IS 
NOTIFIED OF THE TERMINATION, AS PROVIDED UNDER SECTION 766.589 
(4) OF THE WISCONSIN STATUTES.
2.  THIS TERMINATION IS PROSPECTIVE; IT DOES NOT AFFECT THE 
CLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTY ACQUIRED BEFORE THE TERMINATION 
BECOMES EFFECTIVE.  PROPERTY ACQUIRED AFTER THE TERMINATION 
BECOMES EFFECTIVE IS CLASSIFIED AS PROVIDED UNDER THE 
MARITAL PROPERTY LAW.
3.  IN GENERAL, THIS TERMINATION IS NOT BINDING ON 
CREDITORS UNLESS THEY ARE PROVIDED A COPY OF THE TERMINATION 
BEFORE CREDIT IS EXTENDED.
The undersigned terminates the statutory terminable individual property 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1732 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3034
classification agreement entered into by me and my spouse on .... (date last spouse 
signed the agreement) under section 766.589 of the Wisconsin Statutes.
Signature: ....
Date: ....
Print Name Here: ....
Residence Address: ....
SCHEDULE  XAY
FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE
The following general categories of assets and liabilities are not all inclusive 
and if other assets or liabilities exist they should be listed.  Assets should be listed 
according to which spouse has title (including assets owned by a spouse or the 
spouses with one or more third parties) and at their approximate market value.
Husband  Wife Spouse (Name)  Spouse (Name)  Both Names
I. A SSETS :
A. Real estate (gross value)
B. Stocks, bonds and mutual funds
C. Accounts at and certificates and other 
instruments issued by financial institutions
D. Mortgages, land contracts, promissory notes 
and cash
E. Partnership interests
EL. Limited liability company interests
F. Trust interests1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1733 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3034
G. Livestock, farm products, crops
H. Automobiles and other vehicles
I. Jewelry and personal effects
J. Household furnishings
K. Life insurance and annuities:
1. Face value
2. Cash surrender value
L. Retirement benefits (include value):
1. Pension plans
2. Profit sharing plans
3. HR-10 KEOGH plans
4. IRAs
5. Deferred compensation plans
M. Other assets not listed elsewhere
II. O BLIGATIONS  (TOTAL  OUTSTANDING  BALANCE ):
A. Mortgages and liens
B. Credit cards
C. Other obligations to financial institutions
D. Alimony, maintenance and child support (per 
month)
E. Other obligations (such as other obligations to 
individuals, guarantees, contingent liabilities)
III. A NNUAL  COMPENSATION  FOR SERVICES :1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1734 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3034
(for example, wages and income from self-
employment; also include social security,
disability and similar income here)
(IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL SPACE,
ADD ADDITIONAL SHEETS.)
SECTION  3035 .  767.001 (1) (m) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.001 (1) (m)  To enforce or revise an order for support entered under s. 
48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 (5m) (a), 48.363 (2), 938.183 (4), 938.355 (2) (b) 4. 
or (4g) (a), 938.357 (5m) (a), or 938.363 (2) or s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., s. 
48.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., s. 938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., or s. 938.357 (5m) (a), 
2023 stats.
SECTION  3036 .  767.215 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.215 (2) (b)  The name and birthdate of each minor child of the parties and 
each other child born to the wife a party during the marriage, and whether the wife 
a party is pregnant.
SECTION  3037 .  767.215 (5) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
767.215 (5) (a) 2.  The name, date of birth, and social security number of each 
minor child of the parties and of each child who was born to the wife a party during 
the marriage and who is a minor.
SECTION  3038 .  767.323 of the statutes is amended to read:
767.323   Suspension of proceedings to effect reconciliation.   During the 
pendency of an action for divorce or legal separation, the court may, upon written 
stipulation of both parties that they desire to attempt a reconciliation, enter an 
order suspending any and all orders and proceedings for such period, not exceeding 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1735 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3038
90 days, as the court determines advisable to permit the parties to attempt a 
reconciliation without prejudice to their respective rights.  During the suspension 
period, the parties may resume living together as husband and wife a married 
couple and their acts and conduct do not constitute an admission that the marriage 
is not irretrievably broken or a waiver of the ground that the parties have 
voluntarily lived apart continuously for 12 months or more immediately prior to the 
commencement of the action.  Suspension may be revoked upon the motion of either 
party by an order of the court.  If the parties become reconciled, the court shall 
dismiss the action.  If the parties are not reconciled after the period of suspension, 
the action shall proceed as though no reconciliation period was attempted.
SECTION  3039 .  767.511 (1m) (hm) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.511 (1m)  (hm)  The best interests of the child, including, with respect to a 
child placed with an out-of-home care provider under ch. 48 or 938, the impact on 
the child of expenditures by the family for improvement of any conditions in the 
home that would facilitate the reunification of the child with the child [s family, if 
appropriate, and the importance of a placement that is the least restrictive of the 
rights of the child and the parents and the most appropriate for meeting the needs 
of the child and the family.
SECTION  3040 .  767.521 (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.521   Action by state for child support.   (intro.)  The state or its 
delegate under s. 49.22 (7) shall bring an action for support of a minor child under 
s. 767.001 (1) (f) or for paternity determination and child support under s. 767.80 if 
the child [s right to support is assigned to the state under s. 48.57 (3m) (b) 2. or (3n) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1736 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3040
(b) 2., 48.645 (3), 49.145 (2) (s), 49.19 (4) (h) 1. b., or 49.775 (2) (bm) and all of the 
following apply:
SECTION  3041 .  767.55 (3) (a) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
767.55 (3) (a) 2.  The child [s right to support is assigned to the state under s. 
48.57 (3m) (b) 2. or (3n) (b) 2., 48.645 (3), or 49.19 (4) (h) 1. b.
SECTION  3042 .  767.57 (1m) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.57 (1m)  (c)  The party entitled to the support or maintenance money or a 
minor child of the party has applied for or is receiving aid under s. 48.645 or public 
assistance under ch. 49 and there is an assignment to the state under s. 48.645 (3) 
or 49.19 (4) (h) 1. b. of the party [s right to the support or maintenance money.
SECTION  3043 .  767.57 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.57 (2)  P ROCEDURE  IF RECIPIENT  ON PUBLIC  ASSISTANCE .  If a party 
entitled to maintenance or support, or both, is receiving public assistance under ch. 
49, the party may assign the party [s right to support or maintenance to the county 
department under s. 46.215, 46.22, or 46.23 granting the assistance.  The 
assignment shall be approved by order of the court granting the maintenance or 
support.  The assignment may not be terminated if there is a delinquency in the 
amount to be paid to the assignee of maintenance and support previously ordered 
without the written consent of the assignee or upon notice to the assignee and a 
hearing.  When an assignment of maintenance or support, or both, has been 
approved by the order, the assignee shall be deemed a real party in interest within 
s. 803.01 solely for the purpose of securing payment of unpaid maintenance or 
support ordered to be paid, by participating in proceedings to secure the payment of 
unpaid amounts.  Notwithstanding assignment under this subsection, and without 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1737 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3043
further order of the court, the department or its designee, upon receiving notice 
that a party or a minor child of the parties is receiving aid under s. 48.645 or public 
assistance under ch. 49 or that a kinship care provider or long-term kinship care 
provider of the minor child is receiving kinship care payments or long-term kinship 
care payments for the minor child, shall forward all support assigned under s. 48.57 
(3m) (b) 2. or (3n) (b) 2., 48.645 (3), 49.19 (4) (h) 1., or 49.45 (19) to the assignee 
under s. 48.57 (3m) (b) 2. or (3n) (b) 2., 48.645 (3), 49.19 (4) (h) 1., or 49.45 (19).
SECTION  3044 .  767.57 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.57 (4)  P ROCEDURE  FOR CERTAIN  CHILD  RECIPIENTS .  If an order or 
judgment providing for the support of one or more children not receiving aid under 
s. 48.57 (3m) or (3n), 48.645, or 49.19 includes support for a minor who is the 
beneficiary of aid under s. 48.57 (3m) or (3n), 48.645, or 49.19, any support payment 
made under the order or judgment is assigned to the state under s. 48.57 (3m) (b) 2. 
or (3n) (b) 2., 48.645 (3), or 49.19 (4) (h) 1. b. in the amount that is the proportionate 
share of the minor receiving aid under s. 48.57 (3m) or (3n), 48.645, or 49.19, except 
as otherwise ordered by the court on the motion of a party.
SECTION  3045 .  767.59 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.59 (1)  D EFINITION .  In this section, Xsupport or maintenance order Y 
means a judgment or order providing for child support under this chapter or s. 
48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 (5m) (a), 48.363 (2), 938.183 (4), 938.355 (2) (b) 4. 
or (4g) (a), 938.357 (5m) (a), 938.363 (2), or 948.22 (7), or s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 
stats., s. 48.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., s. 938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., or s. 938.357 
(5m) (a), 2023 stats., for maintenance payments under s. 767.56, for family support 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1738 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3045
payments under s. 767.531, 2019 stats., or for the appointment of trustees or 
receivers under s. 767.57 (5).
SECTION  3046 .  767.59 (1c) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.59 (1c) (a) (intro.)  On the petition, motion, or order to show cause of either 
of the parties, the department, a county department under s. 46.215, 46.22, or 
46.23, or a county child support agency under s. 59.53 (5) if an assignment has been 
made under s. 48.57 (3m) (b) 2. or (3n) (b) 2., 48.645 (3), 49.19 (4) (h), or 49.45 (19) 
or if either party or their minor children receive aid under s. 48.57 (3m) or (3n) or 
48.645 or ch. 49, a court may, except as provided in par. (b), do any of the following:
SECTION  3047 .  767.59 (2) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.59 (2) (c)  If the court revises a judgment or order providing for child 
support that was entered under s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 (5m) (a), 48.363 
(2), 938.183 (4), 938.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 938.357 (5m) (a), or 938.363 (2) or s. 
48.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., s. 48.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., s. 938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 
stats., or s. 938.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., the court shall determine child support in 
the manner provided in s. 49.345 (14) or 301.12 (14), whichever is applicable.
SECTION  3048 .  767.77 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.77 (1)  D EFINITION .  In this section, Xpayment obligation Y means an 
obligation to pay support under s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 (5m) (a), 48.363 
(2), 938.183 (4), 938.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 938.357 (5m) (a), or 938.363 (2) or s. 
48.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., s. 48.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., s. 938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 
stats., or s. 938.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., support or maintenance under s. 767.501, 
child support or maintenance under s. 767.225, child support under s. 767.511, 
maintenance under s. 767.56, family support under s. 767.225, 2019 stats., or s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1739 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3048
767.531, 2019 stats., attorney fees under s. 767.241, child support or a child [s health 
care expenses under s. 767.85, paternity obligations under s. 767.804 (3), 767.805 
(4), 767.863 (3), or 767.89, support arrearages under s. 767.71, or child or spousal 
support under s. 948.22 (7).
SECTION  3049 .  767.78 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.78 (1)  D EFINITION .  In this section, Xfinancial obligation Y means an 
obligation for payment incurred under s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., s. 48.357 (5m) 
(a), 2023 stats., s. 767.531, 2019 stats., s. 938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., or s. 938.357 
(5m) (a), 2023 stats., or s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 (5m) (a), 48.363 (2), 
767.225, 767.241, 767.511, 767.56, 767.61, 767.71, 767.804 (3), 767.805 (4), 767.85, 
767.863 (3), 767.89, 938.183 (4), 938.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 938.357 (5m) (a), or 
938.363 (2).
SECTION  3050 .  767.80 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.80 (1)  W HO MAY BRING  ACTION  OR FILE MOTION .  (intro.)  The following 
persons may bring an action or file a motion, including an action or motion for 
declaratory judgment, for the purpose of determining the paternity of a child, or for 
the purpose of rebutting the presumption of paternity parentage under s. 891.405, 
891.407, or 891.41 (1):
SECTION  3051 .  767.80 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.80 (1) (c)  Unless s. 767.804 (1) or 767.805 (1) applies, a male person 
presumed to be the child [s father parent under s. 891.405, 891.407, or 891.41 (1).
SECTION  3052 .  767.80 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.80 (2)  CERTAIN  AGREEMENTS  NOT A BAR TO ACTION .  Regardless of its 
terms, an agreement made after July 1, 1981, other than an agreement approved by 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1740 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3052
the court between an alleged or presumed father parent and the mother or child, 
does not bar an action under this section.  Whenever the court approves an 
agreement in which one of the parties agrees not to commence an action under this 
section, the court shall first determine whether or not the agreement is in the best 
interest of the child.  The court shall not approve any provision waiving the right to 
bring an action under this section if this provision is contrary to the best interests 
of the child.
SECTION  3053 .  767.803 of the statutes is amended to read:
767.803   Determination of marital children.   If the father and mother 
natural parents of a nonmarital child enter into a lawful marriage or a marriage 
which appears and they believe is lawful, except where the parental rights of the 
mother parent who gave birth were terminated before either of these 
circumstances, the child becomes a marital child, is entitled to a change in birth 
record under s. 69.15 (3) (b), and shall enjoy all of the rights and privileges of a 
marital child as if he or she had been born during the marriage of the parents.  This 
section applies to all cases before, on, or after its effective date, but no estate already 
vested shall be divested by this section and ss. 765.05 to 765.24 and 852.05.  The 
children of all marriages declared void under the law are nevertheless marital 
children.
SECTION  3054 .  767.804 (1) (a) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
767.804 (1) (a) 4.  No other male person is presumed to be the father natural 
parent under s. 891.405 or 891.41 (1).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1741 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3055
SECTION  3055 .  767.805 (title), (1), (1m), (2) (a) and (b) and (3) (title) and (a) of 
the statutes are amended to read:
767.805   (title)  Voluntary acknowledgment of paternity parentage.   (1)  
CONCLUSIVE  DETERMINATION  OF PATERNITY  PARENTAGE .  A statement 
acknowledging paternity parentage that is on file with the state registrar under s. 
69.15 (3) (b) 3. after the last day on which a person may timely rescind the 
statement, as specified in s. 69.15 (3m), is a conclusive determination, which shall 
be of the same effect as a judgment, of paternity parentage.
(1m)   M INOR  PARENT  MAY NOT SIGN .  A minor may not sign a statement 
acknowledging paternity parentage.
(2) (a)  A statement acknowledging paternity parentage that is filed with the 
state registrar under s. 69.15 (3) (b) 3. may be rescinded as provided in s. 69.15 (3m) 
by a person who signed the statement as a parent of the child who is the subject of 
the statement.
(b)  If a statement acknowledging paternity parentage is timely rescinded as 
provided in s. 69.15 (3m), a court may not enter an order specified in sub. (4) with 
respect to the male person who signed the statement as the father parent of the 
child unless the male person is adjudicated the child [s father parent using the 
procedures set forth in this subchapter, except for this section.
(3) (title)  A CTIONS  WHEN  PATERNITY  PARENTAGE  ACKNOWLEDGED .  (a)  Unless 
the statement acknowledging paternity parentage has been rescinded, an action 
affecting the family concerning custody, child support or physical placement rights 
may be brought with respect to persons who, with respect to a child, jointly signed 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1742 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3055
and filed with the state registrar under s. 69.15 (3) (b) 3. as parents of the child a 
statement acknowledging paternity parentage.
SECTION  3056 .  767.805 (4) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.805 (4)  ORDERS  WHEN  PATERNITY  PARENTAGE  ACKNOWLEDGED .  (intro.)  In 
an action under sub. (3) (a), if the persons who signed and filed the statement 
acknowledging paternity as parents parentage of the child had notice of the 
hearing, the court shall make an order that contains all of the following provisions:
SECTION  3057 .  767.805 (4) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.805 (4) (d) 1.  An order establishing the amount of the father [s obligation 
to pay or contribute to the reasonable expenses of the mother [s pregnancy and the 
child[s birth childbirth by the parent who did not give birth.  The amount 
established may not exceed one-half of the total actual and reasonable pregnancy 
and birth expenses.  The order also shall specify the court [s findings as to whether 
the father [s parent who did not give birth has an income that is at or below the 
poverty line established under 42 USC 9902 (2), and shall specify whether periodic 
payments are due on the obligation, based on the father [s parent [s ability to pay or 
contribute to those expenses.
2.  If the order does not require periodic payments because the father parent 
has no present ability to pay or contribute to the expenses, the court may modify the 
judgment or order at a later date to require periodic payments if the father parent 
has the ability to pay at that time.
SECTION  3058 .  767.805 (5) (a) and (b) of the statutes are amended to read:
767.805 (5) (a)  A determination of paternity parentage that arises under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1743 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3058
section may be voided at any time upon a motion or petition stating facts that show 
fraud, duress or a mistake of fact.  Except for good cause shown, any orders entered 
under sub. (4) shall remain in effect during the pendency of a proceeding under this 
paragraph.
(b)  If a court in a proceeding under par. (a) determines that the male person is 
not the father parent of the child, the court shall vacate any order entered under 
sub. (4) with respect to the male person.  The court or the county child support 
agency under s. 59.53 (5) shall notify the state registrar, in the manner provided in 
s. 69.15 (1) (b), to remove the male [s person [s name as the father parent of the child 
from the child [s birth record.  No paternity action may thereafter be brought 
against the male person with respect to the child.
SECTION  3059 .  767.805 (6) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.805 (6) (a) (intro.)  This section does not apply unless all of the following 
apply to the statement acknowledging paternity parentage:
SECTION  3060 .  767.855 of the statutes is amended to read:
767.855   Dismissal if adjudication not in child [s best interest.   Except as 
provided in s. 767.863 (1m), at any time in an action to establish the paternity of a 
child, upon the motion of a party or guardian ad litem or the child [s mother if she is 
not a party, the court or supplemental court commissioner under s. 757.675 (2) (g) 
may, if the court or supplemental court commissioner determines that a judicial 
determination of whether a male is the father of the child is not in the best interest 
of the child, dismiss the action with respect to the male, regardless of whether 
genetic tests have been performed or what the results of the tests, if performed, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1744 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3060
were.  Notwithstanding ss. 767.813 (5g) (form) 4., 767.84 (1) and (2), 767.863 (2), 
767.865 (2), and 767.88 (4), if genetic tests have not yet been performed with respect 
to the male, the court or supplemental court commissioner is not required to order 
those genetic tests.
SECTION  3061 .  767.863 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.863 (1m)   PATERNITY  ALLEGATION  BY MALE  PERSON  OTHER  THAN  HUSBAND  
SPOUSE ; WHEN  DETERMINATION  NOT IN BEST  INTEREST  OF CHILD .  In an action to 
establish the paternity of a child who was born to a woman while she was married, 
if a male person other than the woman [s husband spouse alleges that he, not the 
husband woman [s spouse, is the child [s father biological parent, a party, or the 
woman if she is not a party, may allege that a judicial determination that a male 
person other than the husband woman [s spouse is the father biological parent is not 
in the best interest of the child.  If the court or a supplemental court commissioner 
under s. 757.675 (2) (g) determines that a judicial determination of whether a male 
person other than the husband woman [s spouse is the father biological parent is not 
in the best interest of the child, no genetic tests may be ordered and the action shall 
be dismissed.
SECTION  3062 .  767.87 (1m) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.87 (1m)   BIRTH  RECORD  REQUIRED .  (intro.)  If the child was born in this 
state, the petitioner shall present a certified copy of the child [s birth record or a 
printed copy of the record from the birth database of the state registrar to the court, 
so that the court is aware of whether a name has been inserted on the birth record 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1745 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3062
as the father parent of the child other than the mother, at the earliest possible of the 
following:
SECTION  3063 .  767.87 (6) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.87 (6) (a)  Whenever the state brings the action to determine paternity 
pursuant to an assignment under s. 48.57 (3m) (b) 2. or (3n) (b) 2., 48.645 (3), 49.19 
(4) (h) 1., or 49.45 (19), or receipt of benefits under s. 49.148, 49.155, 49.157, or 
49.159, the natural mother of the child may not be compelled to testify about the 
paternity of the child if it has been determined that the mother has good cause for 
refusing to cooperate in establishing paternity as provided in 42 USC 602 (a) (26) 
(B) and the federal regulations promulgated pursuant to this statute, as of 
July 1, 1981, and pursuant to any rules promulgated by the department which 
define good cause in accordance with the federal regulations, as authorized by 42 
USC 602 (a) (26) (B) in effect on July 1, 1981.
SECTION  3064 .  767.87 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.87 (8)  BURDEN  OF PROOF .  The party bringing an action for the purpose of 
determining paternity or for the purpose of declaring the nonexistence of paternity 
presumed under s. 891.405, 891.407, or the nonexistence of parentage presumed 
under s. 891.405 or 891.41 (1) shall have the burden of proving the issues involved 
by clear and satisfactory preponderance of the evidence.
SECTION  3065 .  767.87 (9) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.87 (9)  ARTIFICIAL  INSEMINATION ; NATURAL  FATHER  PARENT .  Where If a 
child is conceived by artificial insemination, the husband spouse of the mother of 
the child at the time of the conception of the child is the natural father parent of the 
child, as provided in s. 891.40.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1746 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3066
SECTION  3066 .  767.883 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
767.883 (1)  TWO PARTS .  The trial shall be divided into 2 parts, the first part 
dealing with the determination of paternity parentage and the 2nd part dealing 
with child support, legal custody, periods of physical placement, and related issues.  
The main issue at the first part shall be whether the alleged or presumed father 
parent is or is not the father parent of the mother [s child, but if the child was born 
to the mother while she was the lawful wife spouse of a specified male person, the 
prior issue of whether the husband mother [s spouse was not the father parent of the 
child shall be determined first, as provided under s. 891.39.  The first part of the 
trial shall be by jury only if the defendant verbally requests a jury trial either at the 
initial appearance or pretrial hearing or requests a jury trial in writing prior to the 
pretrial hearing.  The court may direct and, if requested by either party before the 
introduction of any testimony in the party [s behalf, shall direct the jury to find a 
special verdict as to any of the issues specified in this section, except that the court 
shall make all of the findings enumerated in s. 767.89 (2) to (4).  If the mother is 
dead, becomes insane, cannot be found within the jurisdiction, or fails to commence 
or pursue the action, the proceeding does not abate if any of the persons under s. 
767.80 (1) makes a motion to continue.  The testimony of the mother taken at the 
pretrial hearing may in any such case be read in evidence if it is competent, 
relevant, and material.  The issues of child support, custody, and visitation, and 
related issues shall be determined by the court either immediately after the first 
part of the trial or at a later hearing before the court.
SECTION  3067 .  769.316 (9) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1747 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3067
769.316 (9)  The defense of immunity based on the relationship of husband 
and wife between spouses or parent and child does not apply in a proceeding under 
this chapter.
SECTION  3068 .  769.401 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
769.401 (2) (a)  A parent or presumed father parent of the child.
SECTION  3069 .  769.401 (2) (g) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3070 .  780.01 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
780.01 (5)  For all arrearages owed by the owner in child support ordered 
under s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 (5m) (a), 48.363 (2), 938.183 (4), 938.355 
(2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 938.357 (5m) (a), 938.363 (2), or 948.22 (7) or ch. 767 or 769 or s. 
48.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., s. 48.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., s. 938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 
stats., or s. 938.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., or in family support ordered under ch. 767.
SECTION  3071 .  801.02 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
801.02 (1)   A  Except as provided in s. 20.9315 (5) (b), a civil action in which a 
personal judgment is sought is commenced as to any defendant when a summons 
and a complaint naming the person as defendant are filed with the court, provided 
service of an authenticated copy of the summons and of the complaint is made upon 
the defendant under this chapter within 90 days after filing.
SECTION  3072 .  801.50 (5sb) of the statutes is created to read:
801.50 (5sb)   Venue of an action under s. 813.124 shall be in the county in 
which the cause of action arose or where the petitioner or the respondent resides.
SECTION  3073 .  801.58 (2m) of the statutes is amended to read:
801.58 (2m)   If, under sub. (2), the judge determines that the request for 
substitution was made timely and in proper form, any ex parte order granted by the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1748 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3073
original judge remains in effect according to the terms, except that a temporary 
restraining order issued under s. 813.12 (3), 813.122 (4), 813.123 (4), 813.124 (2t), 
or 813.125 (3) by the original judge is extended until the newly assigned judge holds 
a hearing on the issuance of an injunction.  The newly assigned judge shall hear any 
subsequent motion to modify or vacate any ex parte order granted by the original 
judge.
SECTION  3074 .  803.09 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
803.09 (1)  Upon Except as provided in s. 20.9315, upon timely motion anyone 
shall be permitted to intervene in an action when the movant claims an interest 
relating to the property or transaction which is the subject of the action and the 
movant is so situated that the disposition of the action may as a practical matter 
impair or impede the movant [s ability to protect that interest, unless the movant [s 
interest is adequately represented by existing parties.
SECTION  3075 .  803.09 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
803.09 (2)  Upon Except as provided in s. 20.9315, upon timely motion anyone 
may be permitted to intervene in an action when a movant [s claim or defense and 
the main action have a question of law or fact in common.  When a party to an 
action relies for ground of claim or defense upon any statute or executive order or 
rule administered by a federal or state governmental officer or agency or upon any 
regulation, order, rule, requirement or agreement issued or made pursuant to the 
statute or executive order, the officer or agency upon timely motion may be 
permitted to intervene in the action.  In exercising its discretion the court shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1749 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3075
consider whether the intervention will unduly delay or prejudice the adjudication of 
the rights of the original parties.
SECTION  3076 .  803.09 (2m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3077 .  804.01 (2) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
804.01 (2)  SCOPE  OF DISCOVERY .  (intro.)  Unless Except as provided in s. 
20.9315 (9), and unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with 
the provisions of this chapter, the scope of discovery is as follows:
SECTION  3078 .  805.04 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
805.04 (1)  BY PLAINTIFF ; BY STIPULATION .  An Except as provided in sub. (2p), 
an action may be dismissed by the plaintiff without order of court by serving and 
filing a notice of dismissal at any time before service by an adverse party of 
responsive pleading or motion or by the filing of a stipulation of dismissal signed by 
all parties who have appeared in the action.  Unless otherwise stated in the notice of 
dismissal or stipulation, the dismissal is not on the merits, except that a notice of 
dismissal operates as an adjudication on the merits when filed by a plaintiff who 
has once dismissed in any court an action based on or including the same claim.
SECTION  3079 .  805.04 (2p) of the statutes is created to read:
805.04 (2p)  FALSE  CLAIMS .  An action filed under s. 20.9315 may be dismissed 
only by order of the court.  In determining whether to dismiss the action filed under 
s. 20.9315, the court shall take into account the best interests of the parties and the 
purposes of s. 20.9315.
SECTION  3080 .  806.04 (11) of the statutes is amended to read:
806.04 (11)  PARTIES .  When declaratory relief is sought, all persons shall be 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1750 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3080
made parties who have or claim any interest which would be affected by the 
declaration, and no declaration may prejudice the right of persons not parties to the 
proceeding.  In any proceeding which involves the validity of a municipal ordinance 
or franchise, the municipality shall be made a party, and shall be entitled to be 
heard.  If a statute, ordinance, or franchise is alleged to be unconstitutional, or to be 
in violation of or preempted by federal law, or if the construction or validity of a 
statute is otherwise challenged, the attorney general shall also be served with a 
copy of the proceeding and be entitled to be heard.  If a statute is alleged to be 
unconstitutional, or to be in violation of or preempted by federal law, or if the 
construction or validity of a statute is otherwise challenged, the speaker of the 
assembly, the president of the senate, and the senate majority leader shall also be 
served with a copy of the proceeding, and the assembly, the senate, and the state 
legislature are entitled to be heard.  If the assembly, the senate, or the joint 
committee on legislative organization intervenes as provided under s. 803.09 (2m), 
the assembly shall represent the assembly, the senate shall represent the senate, 
and the joint committee on legislative organization shall represent the legislature.  
In any proceeding under this section in which the constitutionality, construction, or 
application of any provision of ch. 227, or of any statute allowing a legislative 
committee to suspend, or to delay or prevent the adoption of, a rule as defined in s. 
227.01 (13) is placed in issue by the parties, the joint committee for review of 
administrative rules shall be served with a copy of the petition and, with the 
approval of the joint committee on legislative organization, shall be made a party 
and be entitled to be heard.  In any proceeding under this section in which the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1751 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3080
constitutionality, construction, or application of any provision of ch. 13, 20, 111, 
227, or 230 or subch. I, III, or IV of ch. 16 or s. 753.075, or of any statute allowing a 
legislative committee to suspend, or to delay or prevent the adoption of, a rule, as 
defined in s. 227.01 (13), is placed in issue by the parties, the joint committee on 
legislative organization shall be served with a copy of the petition and the joint 
committee on legislative organization, the senate committee on organization, or the 
assembly committee on organization may intervene as a party to the proceedings 
and be heard.
SECTION  3081 .  809.13 of the statutes is amended to read:
809.13   Rule (Intervention).   A person who is not a party to an appeal may 
file in the court of appeals a petition to intervene in the appeal.  A party may file a 
response to the petition within 11 days after service of the petition.  The court may 
grant the petition upon a showing that the petitioner [s interest meets the 
requirements of s. 803.09 (1), or (2), or (2m).
SECTION  3082 .  813.06 of the statutes is amended to read:
813.06   Security for damages.   In proceedings under s. 767.225 the court or 
judge may, and in all other proceedings except proceedings under ss. 813.12, 
813.122, 813.124, 813.125 and 823.113 the court or judge shall, require a bond of 
the party seeking an injunction, with sureties, to the effect that he or she will pay to 
the party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, as he or 
she may sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally decides that the 
party was not entitled thereto.  Copies of such bond, affidavit or other pleading 
shall be served upon the party enjoined and the officer serving the same shall, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1752 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3082
within 8 days after such service, file his or her return in the office of the clerk of the 
court.
SECTION  3083 .  813.124 of the statutes is created to read:
813.124   Extreme risk protection temporary restraining orders and 
injunctions.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XFamily or household member Y means any of the following:
1.  A person related by blood, adoption, or marriage to the respondent.
2.  A person with whom the respondent has or had a dating relationship, as 
defined in s. 813.12 (1) (ag), or with whom the respondent has a child in common.
3.  A person who resides with, or within the 6 months before filing a petition, 
had resided with, the respondent.
4.  A domestic partner under ch. 770 of the respondent.
5.  A person who is acting or has acted as the respondent [s legal guardian or 
who is or was a foster parent or other physical custodian described in s. 48.62 (2) of 
the respondent.
6.  A person for whom the respondent is acting or has acted as a legal guardian 
or for whom the respondent is or was the foster parent or other physical custodian 
described in s. 48.62 (2).
(b)  XFirearms dealer Y has the meaning given in s. 175.35 (1) (ar).
(c)  XLaw enforcement officer Y has the meaning given in s. 165.85 (2) (c).
(2)  COMMENCEMENT  OF ACTION  AND RESPONSE .  No action under this section 
may be commenced by complaint and summons.  An action under this section may 
be commenced only by a petition described under sub. (4) (a).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1753 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3083
(2m)  PROCEDURE .  Procedure for an action under this section is as follows:
(a)  If the petitioner requests an extreme risk protection temporary restraining 
order, the court shall consider the request as provided under sub. (2t).  If the court 
issues a temporary restraining order, the court shall set forth the date, which must 
be within 14 days of issuing the temporary restraining order, for the hearing on the 
injunction and shall forward a copy of the temporary restraining order, the 
injunction hearing date, and the petition to the appropriate law enforcement agency 
with jurisdiction over the respondent [s residence.  The law enforcement agency 
shall immediately, or as soon as practicable, serve it on the respondent.  If personal 
service cannot be effected upon the respondent, the court may order other 
appropriate service.
(b)  The court shall hold a hearing under sub. (3) on whether to issue an 
extreme risk protection injunction, which is the final relief.  If there was no 
temporary restraining order, the respondent shall be served notice of the petition by 
a law enforcement officer and the date for the hearing shall be set upon motion by 
either party.  If personal service cannot be effected upon the respondent, the court 
may order other appropriate service.  The service shall include the name of the 
respondent and of the petitioner, and, if known, notice of the date, time, and place of 
the injunction hearing.
(c)  When the respondent is served under this subsection, the respondent shall 
be provided notice of the requirements and penalties under s. 941.29.
(2t)  EXTREME  RISK PROTECTION  TEMPORARY  RESTRAINING  ORDER .  (a)  A judge 
shall issue an extreme risk protection temporary restraining order under this 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1754 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3083
subsection prohibiting the respondent from possessing a firearm and ordering the 
respondent to surrender all firearms in the respondent [s possession if all of the 
following occur:
1.  A petitioner files a petition alleging the elements under sub. (4) (a), and 
requests a temporary restraining order.  The petition requesting a temporary 
restraining order shall be heard by the court in an expedited manner.  The court 
shall examine under oath the petitioner and any witness the petitioner may 
produce or may rely on an affidavit submitted in support of the petition.
2.  The judge finds all of the following:
a.  Substantial likelihood that the petition for an injunction will be successful.
b.  Good cause to believe that there is an immediate and present danger that 
the respondent may injure themself or another person if the respondent possesses a 
firearm and that waiting for the injunction hearing may increase the immediate 
and present danger.
(b)  A temporary restraining order issued under this subsection shall remain 
in effect until a hearing is held on issuance of an injunction under sub. (3).  Notice 
need not be given to the respondent before issuing a temporary restraining order 
under this subsection.  A temporary restraining order may be entered against only 
the respondent named in the petition and may not be renewed or extended.
(c)  A temporary restraining order issued under this subsection shall inform 
the respondent named in the petition of the requirements and penalties under s. 
941.29.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1755 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3083
(d)  The temporary restraining order issued under this subsection shall 
require one of the following:
1.  If a law enforcement officer is able to personally serve the respondent with 
the order, the officer to require the respondent to immediately surrender all 
firearms in the respondent [s possession.
2.  If a law enforcement officer is not able to personally serve the respondent 
with the order, the respondent to, within 24 hours of service, surrender all firearms 
in the respondent [s possession to a law enforcement officer or transfer or sell all 
firearms in the respondent [s possession to a firearms dealer.  Within 48 hours of 
service, the respondent shall file with the court that issued the order under this 
subsection a receipt indicating that the respondent surrendered, transferred, or 
sold the firearms.  The receipt must include the date on which each firearm was 
surrendered, transferred, or sold and the manufacturer, model, and serial number 
of each firearm and must be signed by either the law enforcement officer to whom 
the firearm was surrendered or the firearms dealer to whom the firearm was 
transferred or sold.
(3)  EXTREME  RISK PROTECTION  INJUNCTION .  (a)  The court shall hold a 
hearing on whether to issue an extreme risk protection injunction, which is the 
final relief.  At the hearing, a judge may grant an injunction prohibiting the 
respondent from possessing a firearm and, if there was no temporary restraining 
order under sub. (2t), ordering the respondent to surrender all firearms in the 
respondent [s possession if all of the following occur:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1756 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3083
1.  The petitioner files a petition alleging the elements set forth under sub. (4) 
(a).
2.  The petitioner serves upon the respondent a copy or summary of the 
petition and notice of the time for hearing on the issuance of the injunction, or the 
respondent serves upon the petitioner notice of the time for hearing on the issuance 
of the injunction.
3.  The judge finds by clear and convincing evidence that the respondent is 
substantially likely to injure themself or another person if the respondent possesses 
a firearm.
(b)  The judge may enter an injunction against only the respondent named in 
the petition.
(c) 1.  Unless a judge vacates the injunction under par. (d), an injunction under 
this subsection is effective for a period determined by the judge that is no longer 
than one year.
2.  When an injunction expires, the court shall extend the injunction, upon 
petition, for up to one year if the judge finds by clear and convincing evidence that 
the respondent is still substantially likely to injure themself or another person if the 
respondent possesses a firearm.
(d)  A respondent who is subject to an injunction issued under this subsection 
may request in writing a judge to vacate the injunction one time during any 
injunction period.  If a respondent files a request under this paragraph, the 
petitioner shall be notified of the request before the judge considers the request.  
The judge shall vacate the injunction if the respondent demonstrates by clear and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1757 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3083
convincing evidence that the respondent is no longer substantially likely to injure 
themself or another person if the respondent possesses a firearm.
(e)  An injunction issued under this subsection shall inform the respondent 
named in the petition of the requirements and penalties under s. 941.29.
(4)  PETITION .  (a)  The petition shall allege facts sufficient to show the 
following:
1.  The name of the petitioner and, unless the petitioner is a law enforcement 
officer, how the petitioner is a family or household member of the respondent.
2.  The name of the respondent.
3.  That the respondent is substantially likely to injure themself or another 
person if the respondent possesses a firearm.
4.  If the petitioner knows, the number, types, and locations of any firearms 
that the respondent possesses.
5.  If requesting a temporary restraining order, evidence of an immediate and 
present danger that the respondent may injure themself or another person if the 
respondent possesses a firearm and that waiting for the injunction hearing may 
increase the immediate and present danger.
(b)  The clerk of the circuit court shall provide simplified forms to help a 
person file a petition.
(c)  Only the following persons may file a petition under this section:
1.  A law enforcement officer.
2.  A family or household member of the respondent.
(5)  ENFORCEMENT  ASSISTANCE .  (a) 1.  If a temporary restraining order is 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1758 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3083
issued under sub. (2t) or an injunction is issued, extended, or vacated under sub. (3), 
the clerk of the circuit court shall notify the department of justice of the action and 
shall provide the department of justice with information concerning the period 
during which the order or injunction is in effect or the date on which the injunction 
is vacated and with information necessary to identify the respondent for purposes 
of responding to a request under s. 165.63 or for purposes of a firearms restrictions 
record search under s. 175.35 (2g) (c) or a background check under s. 175.60 (9g) (a).
2.  Except as provided in subd. 3., the department of justice may disclose 
information that it receives under subd. 1. only to respond to a request under s. 
165.63 or as part of a firearms restrictions record search under s. 175.35 (2g) (c) or 
a background check under s. 175.60 (9g) (a).
3.  The department of justice shall disclose any information that it receives 
under subd. 1. to a law enforcement agency when the information is needed for law 
enforcement purposes.
(b)  Within one business day after a temporary restraining order is issued 
under sub. (2t) or an injunction is issued, extended, or vacated under sub. (3), the 
clerk of the circuit court shall send a copy of the temporary restraining order, of the 
injunction, or of the order extending or vacating an injunction, to the sheriff or to 
any other local law enforcement agency that is the central repository for injunctions 
and that has jurisdiction over the petitioner [s premises.
(c)  No later than 24 hours after receiving the information under par. (b), the 
sheriff or other appropriate local law enforcement agency under par. (b) shall enter 
the information concerning a temporary restraining order issued under sub. (2t) or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1759 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3083
concerning an injunction issued, extended, or vacated under sub. (3) into the 
transaction information for management of enforcement system.  The sheriff or 
other appropriate local law enforcement agency shall also make available to other 
law enforcement agencies, through a verification system, information on the 
existence and status of any order or injunction issued under this section.  The 
information need not be maintained after the order or injunction is no longer in 
effect.
(d) 1.  The court may schedule a hearing to surrender firearms for any reason 
relevant to the surrender of firearms.
2.  If the respondent does not comply with an order issued at a hearing to 
surrender firearms, or a law enforcement officer has probable cause to believe that 
the respondent possesses a firearm, the law enforcement officer shall request a 
search warrant to seize the firearms and may use information contained in the 
petition to establish probable cause.
(6)  PENALTY  FOR FALSE  SWEARING .  Whoever files a petition under this section 
knowing the information in the petition to be false is subject to the penalty for false 
swearing under s. 946.32 (1).
(7)  RETURN  OF FIREARMS  AND FORM .  (a)  A firearm surrendered under this 
section may not be returned to the respondent until the respondent completes a 
petition for the return of firearms under par. (c) and a judge or circuit court 
commissioner determines all of the following:
1.  If a temporary restraining order was issued, that the temporary restraining 
order has expired and no injunction has been issued.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1760 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3083
2.  If an injunction was issued, that the injunction has been vacated or has 
expired and not been extended.
3.  That the person is not prohibited from possessing a firearm under any state 
or federal law or by the order of any federal court or state court, other than an order 
from which the judge or circuit court commissioner is competent to grant relief.  The 
judge or commissioner shall use the information provided under s. 165.63 to aid in 
making the determination under this subdivision.
(b)  If a respondent surrenders under this section a firearm that is owned by a 
person other than the respondent, the person who owns the firearm may apply for 
its return to the circuit court for the county in which the person to whom the 
firearm was surrendered is located.  The court shall order such notice as it 
considers adequate to be given to all persons who have or may have an interest in 
the firearm and shall hold a hearing to hear all claims to its true ownership.  If the 
right to possession is proved to the court [s satisfaction, it shall order the firearm 
returned.  If the court returns a firearm under this paragraph, the court shall 
inform the person to whom the firearm is returned of the requirements and 
penalties under s. 941.2905.
(c)  The director of state courts shall develop a petition for the return of 
firearms form that is substantially the same as the form under s. 813.1285 (5) (b).
(8)  NOTICE  OF FULL  FAITH  AND CREDIT .  A temporary restraining order issued 
under sub. (2t) and an injunction issued under sub. (3) shall include a statement 
that the order or injunction may be accorded full faith and credit in every civil or 
criminal court of the United States, civil or criminal courts of any other state, and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1761 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3083
Indian tribal courts to the extent that such courts may have personal jurisdiction 
over nontribal members.
SECTION  3084 .  813.126 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
813.126 (1)  TIME LIMITS  FOR DE NOVO  HEARING .  If a party seeks to have the 
judge conduct a hearing de novo under s. 757.69 (8) of a determination, order, or 
ruling entered by a court commissioner in an action under s. 813.12, 813.122, 
813.123, 813.124, or 813.125, including a denial of a request for a temporary 
restraining order, the motion requesting the hearing must be filed with the court 
within 30 days after the circuit court commissioner issued the determination, order, 
or ruling.  The court shall hold the de novo hearing within 30 days after the motion 
requesting the hearing is filed with the court unless the court finds good cause for 
an extension.  Any determination, order, or ruling entered by a court commissioner 
in an action under s. 813.12, 813.122, 813.123, 813.124, or 813.125 remains in effect 
until the judge in the de novo hearing issues his or her final determination, order, or 
ruling.
SECTION  3085 .  813.127 of the statutes is amended to read:
813.127   Combined actions; domestic abuse, child abuse, extreme risk 
protection, and harassment.   A petitioner may combine in one action 2 or more 
petitions under one or more of the provisions in ss. 813.12, 813.122, 813.124, and 
813.125 if the respondent is the same person in each petition.  In any such action, 
there is only one fee applicable under s. 814.61 (1) (a).  In any such action, the 
hearings for different types of temporary restraining orders or injunctions may be 
combined.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1762 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3086
SECTION  3086 .  813.128 (2g) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
813.128 (2g) (b)  A foreign protection order or modification of the foreign 
protection order that meets the requirements under this section has the same effect 
as an order issued under s. 813.12, 813.122, 813.123, 813.124, or 813.125, except 
that the foreign protection order or modification shall be enforced according to its 
own terms.
SECTION  3087 .  814.04 (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
814.04   Items of costs.   (intro.)  Except as provided in ss. 93.20, 100.195 (5m) 
(b), 100.30 (5m), 106.50 (6) (i) and (6m) (a), 111.397 (2) (a), 115.80 (9), 767.553 (4) 
(d), 769.313, 802.05, 814.245, 895.035 (4), 895.044, 895.443 (3), 895.444 (2), 895.445 
(3), 895.446 (3), 895.506, 943.212 (2) (b), 943.245 (2) (d), 943.51 (2) (b), and 995.10 
(3), when allowed costs shall be as follows:
SECTION  3088 .  814.75 (5g) of the statutes is created to read:
814.75 (5g)  The crime victim services surcharge under s. 973.0452.
SECTION  3089 .  814.76 (4p) of the statutes is created to read:
814.76 (4p)  The crime victim services surcharge under s. 973.0452.
SECTION  3090 .  814.77 (3p) of the statutes is created to read:
814.77 (3p)  The crime victim services surcharge under s. 973.0452.
SECTION  3091 .  814.78 (4p) of the statutes is created to read:
814.78 (4p)  The crime victim services surcharge under s. 973.0452.
SECTION  3092 .  814.79 (3p) of the statutes is created to read:
814.79 (3p)  The crime victim services surcharge under s. 973.0452.
SECTION  3093 .  814.80 (4p) of the statutes is created to read:
814.80 (4p)  The crime victim services surcharge under s. 973.0452.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1763 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3094
SECTION  3094 .  814.81 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
814.81 (4)  The crime victim services surcharge under s. 973.0452.
SECTION  3095 .  815.20 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
815.20 (1)  An exempt homestead as defined in s. 990.01 (14) selected by a 
resident owner and occupied by him or her shall be exempt from execution, from the 
lien of every judgment, and from liability for the debts of the owner to the amount of 
$75,000, except mortgages, laborers [, mechanics [, and purchase money liens, and 
taxes, and except as otherwise provided.  The exemption shall not be impaired by 
temporary removal with the intention to reoccupy the premises as a homestead nor 
by the sale of the homestead, but shall extend to the proceeds derived from the sale 
to an amount not exceeding $75,000, while held, with the intention to procure 
another homestead with the proceeds, for 2 years.  The exemption extends to land 
owned by husband and wife spouses jointly or in common or as marital property, 
and each spouse may claim a homestead exemption of not more than $75,000.  The 
exemption extends to the interest therein of tenants in common, having a 
homestead thereon with the consent of the cotenants, and to any estate less than a 
fee.
SECTION  3096 .  822.40 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
822.40 (4)  A privilege against disclosure of communications between spouses 
and a defense of immunity based on the relationship of husband and wife between 
spouses or parent and child may not be invoked in a proceeding under this 
subchapter.
SECTION  3097 .  851.30 (2) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1764 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3097
851.30 (2) (a)  An individual who obtains or consents to a final decree or 
judgment of divorce from the decedent or an annulment of their marriage, if the 
decree or judgment is not recognized as valid in this state, unless they subsequently 
participate in a marriage ceremony purporting to marry each other or they 
subsequently hold themselves out as husband and wife married to each other.
SECTION  3098 .  852.01 (1) (f) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
852.01 (1) (f) 1.  One-half to the maternal grandparents on one side equally if 
both survive, or to the surviving maternal grandparent on that side; if both 
maternal grandparents on that side are deceased, to the issue of the maternal 
grandparents on that side or either of them, per stirpes.
SECTION  3099 .  852.01 (1) (f) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
852.01 (1) (f) 2.  One-half to the paternal relations on the other side in the 
same manner as to the maternal relations under subd. 1.
SECTION  3100 .  852.01 (1) (f) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
852.01 (1) (f) 3.  If either the maternal side or the paternal side has no 
surviving grandparent or issue of a grandparent, the entire estate to the decedent [s 
relatives on the other side.
SECTION  3101 .  854.03 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
854.03 (3)  MARITAL  PROPERTY .  Except as provided in subs. (4) and (5), if  a 
husband and wife 2 spouses die leaving marital property and it is not established 
that one survived the other by at least 120 hours, 50 percent of the marital property 
shall be distributed as if it were the husband [s first spouse [s individual property 
and the husband 2nd spouse had survived, and 50 percent of the marital property 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1765 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3101
shall be distributed as if it were the wife [s 2nd spouse [s individual property and the 
wife first spouse had survived.
SECTION  3102 .  891.39 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
891.39   (title)  Presumption as to whether a child is marital or 
nonmarital; self-crimination self-incrimination; birth certificates.
SECTION  3103 .  891.39 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
891.39 (1) (a)  Whenever it is established in an action or proceeding that a 
child was born to a woman while she was the lawful wife of legally married to a 
specified man person, any party asserting in such action or proceeding that the 
husband was spouse is not the father parent of the child shall have the burden of 
proving that assertion by a clear and satisfactory preponderance of the evidence.  In 
all such actions or proceedings the husband and the wife spouses are competent to 
testify as witnesses to the facts.  The court or judge in such cases shall appoint a 
guardian ad litem to appear for and represent the child whose paternity parentage 
is questioned.  Results of a genetic test, as defined in s. 767.001 (1m), showing that 
a man person other than the husband mother [s spouse is not excluded as the father 
of the child and that the statistical probability of the man [s person [s parentage is 
99.0 percent or higher constitute a clear and satisfactory preponderance of the 
evidence of the assertion under this paragraph, even if the husband mother [s 
spouse is unavailable to submit to genetic tests, as defined in s. 767.001 (1m).
SECTION  3104 .  891.39 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
891.39 (1) (b)  In actions affecting the family, in which the question of 
paternity parentage is raised, and in paternity proceedings, the court, upon being 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1766 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3104
satisfied that the parties to the action are unable to adequately compensate any 
such guardian ad litem for the guardian ad litem [s services and expenses, shall 
then make an order specifying the guardian ad litem [s compensation and expenses, 
which compensation and expenses shall be paid as provided in s. 967.06.  If the 
court orders a county to pay the compensation of the guardian ad litem, the amount 
ordered may not exceed the compensation paid to private attorneys under s. 977.08 
(4m) (b).
SECTION  3105 .  891.39 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
891.39 (3)  If any court under this section adjudges a child to be a nonmarital 
child, the clerk of court shall report the facts to the state registrar, who shall issue 
a new birth record showing the correct facts as found by the court, and shall dispose 
of the original, with the court [s report attached under s. 69.15 (3).  If the husband 
mother[s spouse is a party to the action and the court makes a finding as to whether 
or not the husband mother [s spouse is the father parent of the child, such finding 
shall be conclusive in all other courts of this state.
SECTION  3106 .  891.40 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 891.40 (1) (a) and 
amended to read:
891.40 (1) (a)  If, under the supervision of a licensed physician and with the 
spouse[s consent of her husband, a wife person is inseminated artificially as 
provided in par. (b) with semen donated by a man person who is not her husband 
the spouse of the person being inseminated, the husband spouse of the mother 
inseminated person at the time of the conception of the child shall be the natural 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1767 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3106
father parent of a child conceived.  The husband [s spouse [s consent must be in 
writing and signed by him or her and his wife.  The by the inseminated person.
(c) 1.  If the artificial insemination under par. (a) takes place under the 
supervision of a licensed physician, the physician shall certify their the signatures 
on the consent and the date of the insemination, and shall file the husband [s 
spouse[s consent with the department of health services, where it shall be kept.  If 
the artificial insemination under par. (a) does not take place under the supervision 
of a licensed physician, the spouses shall file the signed consent, which shall 
include the date of the insemination, with the department of health services.
2.  The department of health services shall keep a consent filed under subd. 1. 
confidential and in a sealed file except as provided in s. 46.03 (7) (bm).  However,
3.  Notwithstanding subd. 1., the physician [s or spouses [ failure to file the 
consent form does not affect the legal status of father natural parent and child.
(d)  All papers and records pertaining to the artificial insemination under par. 
(a), whether part of the permanent record of a court or of a file held by the a 
supervising physician or sperm bank or elsewhere, may be inspected only upon an 
order of the court for good cause shown.
SECTION  3107 .  891.40 (1) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
891.40 (1) (b)  The artificial insemination under par. (a) must satisfy any of 
the following:
1.  The artificial insemination takes place under the supervision of a licensed 
physician.
2.  The semen used for the insemination is obtained from a sperm bank.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1768 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3108
SECTION  3108 .  891.40 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
891.40 (2)  The donor of semen provided to a licensed physician or obtained 
from a sperm bank for use in the artificial insemination of a woman other than the 
donor[s wife spouse is not the natural father parent of a child conceived, bears no 
liability for the support of the child, and has no parental rights with regard to the 
child.
SECTION  3109 .  891.40 (3) of the statutes is created to read:
891.40 (3)  This section applies with respect to children conceived before, on, 
or after the effective date of this subsection .... [LRB inserts date], as a result of 
artificial insemination.
SECTION  3110 .  891.405 of the statutes is amended to read:
891.405   Presumption of paternity parentage based on 
acknowledgment.   A man person is presumed to be the natural father parent of a 
child if he the person and the mother person who gave birth have acknowledged 
paternity parentage under s. 69.15 (3) (b) 1. or 3. and no other man person is 
presumed to be the father natural parent under s. 891.41 (1).
SECTION  3111 .  891.407 of the statutes is amended to read:
891.407   Presumption of paternity parentage based on genetic test 
results.   A man person is presumed to be the natural father parent of a child if the 
man person has been conclusively determined from genetic test results to be the 
father natural parent under s. 767.804 and no other man person, other than the 
person who gave birth to the child, is presumed to be the father natural parent 
under s. 891.405 or 891.41 (1).
SECTION  3112 .  891.41 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1769 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3112
891.41   (title)  Presumption of paternity parentage based on marriage 
of the parties.
SECTION  3113 .  891.41 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
891.41 (1) (intro.)  A man person is presumed to be the natural father parent 
of a child if any of the following applies:
SECTION  3114 .  891.41 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
891.41 (1) (a)  He The person and the child [s established natural mother 
parent are or have been married to each other and the child is conceived or born 
after marriage and before the granting of a decree of legal separation, annulment, 
or divorce between the parties.
SECTION  3115 .  891.41 (1) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 891.41 (1) (b) 
(intro.) and amended to read:
891.41 (1) (b) (intro.)  He The person and the child [s established natural 
mother parent were married to each other after the child was born but he the 
person and the child [s established natural mother parent had a relationship with 
one another during the period of time within which the child was conceived and no 
other man all of the following apply:
1.  No person has been adjudicated to be the father or.
2.  No other person is presumed to be the father parent of the child under par. 
(a).
SECTION  3116 .  891.41 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
891.41 (2)  In a legal action or proceeding, a presumption under sub. (1) is 
rebutted by results of a genetic test, as defined in s. 767.001 (1m), that show that a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1770 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3116
man person other than the man person presumed to be the father parent under sub. 
(1) is not excluded as the father of the child and that the statistical probability of the 
man[s person [s parentage is 99.0 percent or higher, even if the man person 
presumed to be the father natural parent under sub. (1) is unavailable to submit to 
genetic tests, as defined in s. 767.001 (1m).
SECTION  3117 .  891.41 (3) of the statutes is created to read:
891.41 (3)  This section applies with respect to children born before, on, or 
after the effective date of this subsection .... [LRB inserts date].
SECTION  3118 .  893.415 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
893.415 (2)  An action to collect child or family support owed under a 
judgment or order entered under ch. 767, or to collect child support owed under a 
judgment or order entered under s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 48.357 (5m) (a), 
48.363 (2), 938.183 (4), 938.355 (2) (b) 4. or (4g) (a), 938.357 (5m) (a), 938.363 (2), or 
948.22 (7) or s. 48.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., s. 48.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., s. 
938.355 (2) (b) 4., 2023 stats., or s. 938.357 (5m) (a), 2023 stats., shall be commenced 
within 20 years after the youngest child for whom the support was ordered under 
the judgment or order reaches the age of 18 or, if the child is enrolled full-time in 
high school or its equivalent, reaches the age of 19.
SECTION  3119 .  Subchapter VIII (title) of chapter 893 [precedes 893.80] of the 
statutes is amended to read:
CHAPTER 893
SUBCHAPTER VIII 
CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENTAL 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1771 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3119
BODIES, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES; 
STATUTORY CHALLENGES
SECTION  3120 .  893.825 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3121 .  893.9815 of the statutes is created to read:
893.9815   False claims.   An action or claim under s. 20.9315 shall be 
commenced within 10 years after the cause of the action or claim accrues or be 
barred.
SECTION  3122 .  893.995 of the statutes is created to read:
893.995   Employment discrimination; civil remedies.   Any civil action 
arising under s. 111.397 is subject to the limitations of s. 111.397 (1) (b).
SECTION  3123 .  895.478 (3m) of the statutes is amended to read:
895.478 (3m)   ELEMENTARY  AND SECONDARY  SCHOOLS .  An elementary or 
secondary school and its designated school personnel, and a physician, advanced 
practice registered nurse prescriber, or physician assistant who provides or 
administers an opioid antagonist, are not liable for any injury that results from the 
opioid antagonist, regardless of whether authorization was given by the pupil [s 
parent or guardian or by the pupil [s physician, advanced practice registered nurse 
prescriber, or physician assistant, unless the injury is the result of an act or 
omission that constitutes gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct.  The 
immunity from liability provided under this subsection is in addition to and not in 
lieu of that provided under s. 895.48.
SECTION  3124 .  905.05 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
905.05   (title)  Husband-wife Spousal and domestic partner privilege.
SECTION  3125 .  938.02 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1772 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3125
938.02 (1)  XAdultY means a person who is 18 years of age or older, except that 
for purposes of investigating or prosecuting a person who is alleged to have violated 
any state or federal criminal law or any civil law or municipal ordinance, XadultY 
means a person who has attained 17 years of age.
SECTION  3126 .  938.02 (10m) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.02 (10m)   XJuvenile, Y when used without further qualification, means a 
person who is less than 18 years of age, except that for purposes of investigating or 
prosecuting a person who is alleged to have violated a state or federal criminal law 
or any civil law or municipal ordinance, XjuvenileY does not include a person who 
has attained 17 years of age.
SECTION  3127 .  938.02 (13) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.02 (13)  XParentY means a biological natural parent, a husband who has 
consented to the artificial insemination of his wife under s. 891.40, or a parent by 
adoption.  If the juvenile is a nonmarital child who is not adopted or whose parents 
do not subsequently intermarry under s. 767.803, XparentY includes a person 
conclusively determined from genetic test results to be the father under s. 767.804 
or a person acknowledged under s. 767.805 or a substantially similar law of another 
state or adjudicated to be the biological father natural parent.  XParentY does not 
include any person whose parental rights have been terminated.  For purposes of 
the application of s. 938.028 and the federal Indian Child Welfare Act, 25 USC 1901 
to 1963, XparentY means a biological natural parent of an Indian child, an Indian 
husband spouse who has consented to the artificial insemination of his wife or her 
spouse under s. 891.40, or an Indian person who has lawfully adopted an Indian 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1773 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3127
juvenile, including an adoption under tribal law or custom, and includes, in the case 
of a nonmarital Indian child who is not adopted or whose parents do not 
subsequently intermarry under s. 767.803, a person conclusively determined from 
genetic test results to be the father under s. 767.804, a person acknowledged under 
s. 767.805, a substantially similar law of another state, or tribal law or custom to be 
the biological father natural parent, or a person adjudicated to be the biological 
father natural parent, but does not include any person whose parental rights have 
been terminated.
SECTION  3128 .  938.12 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.12 (2)  S EVENTEEN -YEAR -OLDS  JUVENILES  WHO BECOME  ADULTS .  If a 
petition alleging that a juvenile is delinquent is filed before the juvenile is 17 years 
of age becomes an adult, but the juvenile becomes 17 years of age an adult before 
admitting the facts of the petition at the plea hearing or, if the juvenile denies the 
facts, before an adjudication, the court retains jurisdiction over the case.
SECTION  3129 .  938.18 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.18 (2)  PETITION .  The petition for waiver of jurisdiction may be filed by the 
district attorney or the juvenile or may be initiated by the court and shall contain a 
brief statement of the facts supporting the request for waiver.  The petition for 
waiver of jurisdiction shall be accompanied by or filed after the filing of a petition 
alleging delinquency and shall be filed prior to the plea hearing, except that if the 
juvenile denies the facts of the petition and becomes 17 years of age an adult before 
an adjudication, the petition for waiver of jurisdiction may be filed at any time prior 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1774 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3129
to the adjudication.  If the court initiates the petition for waiver of jurisdiction, the 
judge shall disqualify himself or herself from any future proceedings on the case.
SECTION  3130 .  938.183 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.183 (3)  PLACEMENT  IN STATE  PRISON ; PAROLE .  When Subject to s. 973.013 
(3m), when a juvenile who is subject to a criminal penalty under sub. (1m) or s. 
938.183 (2), 2003 stats., attains the age of 17 years becomes an adult, the 
department of corrections may place the juvenile in a state prison named in s. 
302.01, except that that department may not place any person under the age of 18 
years in the correctional institution authorized in s. 301.16 (1n).  A juvenile who is 
subject to a criminal penalty under sub. (1m) or under s. 938.183 (2), 2003 stats., for 
an act committed before December 31, 1999, is eligible for parole under s. 304.06.
SECTION  3131 .  938.255 (1) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.255 (1)  TITLE AND CONTENTS .  (intro.)  A petition initiating proceedings 
under this chapter, other than a petition initiating proceedings under s. 938.12, 
938.125, or 938.13 (12), shall be entitled, XIn the interest of (juvenile [s name), a 
person under the age of 18 Y..Y  A petition initiating proceedings under s. 938.12, 
938.125, or 938.13 (12) shall be entitled, XIn the interest of (juvenile [s name), a 
person under the age of 17 Y. juvenile. Y  A petition initiating proceedings under this 
chapter shall specify all of the following:
SECTION  3132 .  938.33 (3) (intro.) and (a) of the statutes are consolidated, 
renumbered 938.33 (3) and amended to read:
938.33 (3)  C ORRECTIONAL  PLACEMENT  REPORTS .  A report recommending 
placement of a juvenile in a juvenile correctional facility or a secured residential 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1775 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3132
care center for children and youth shall be in writing, except that the report may be 
presented orally at the dispositional hearing if the juvenile and the juvenile [s 
counsel consent.  A report that is presented orally shall be transcribed and made a 
part of the court record.  In addition to the information specified under sub. (1) (a) 
to (d), the report shall include all of the following: (a)  A  a description of any less 
restrictive alternatives that are available and that have been considered, and why 
they have been determined to be inappropriate.  If the court has found that any of 
the conditions specified in s. 938.34 (4m) (b) 1., 2., or 3. applies, the report shall 
indicate that a less restrictive alternative than placement in a juvenile correctional 
facility or a secured residential care center for children and youth is not 
appropriate.
SECTION  3133 .  938.33 (3) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3134 .  938.33 (4) (b) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3135 .  938.33 (4m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3136 .  938.335 (3r) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3137 .  938.34 (8) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.34 (8)  FORFEITURE .  Impose a forfeiture based upon a determination that 
this disposition is in the best interest of the juvenile and the juvenile [s 
rehabilitation.  The maximum forfeiture that the court may impose under this 
subsection for a violation by a juvenile is the maximum amount of the fine that may 
be imposed on an adult for committing that violation or, if the violation is applicable 
only to  a person under 18 years of age juveniles, $100.  The order shall include a 
finding that the juvenile alone is financially able to pay the forfeiture and shall 
allow up to 12 months for payment.  If the juvenile fails to pay the forfeiture, the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1776 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3137
court may vacate the forfeiture and order other alternatives under this section; or 
the court may suspend any license issued under ch. 29 for not less than 30 days nor 
more than 5 years, or suspend the juvenile [s operating privilege, as defined in s. 
340.01 (40), for not more than 2 years.  If the court suspends any license under this 
subsection, the clerk of the court shall immediately take possession of the 
suspended license if issued under ch. 29 or, if the license is issued under ch. 343, the 
court may take possession of, and if possession is taken, shall destroy, the license.  
The court shall forward to the department which that issued the license a notice of 
suspension stating that the suspension is for failure to pay a forfeiture imposed by 
the court, together with any license issued under ch. 29 of which the court takes 
possession.  If the forfeiture is paid during the period of suspension, the suspension 
shall be reduced to the time period which that has already elapsed and the court 
shall immediately notify the department, which shall then, if the license is issued 
under ch. 29, return the license to the juvenile.  Any recovery under this subsection 
shall be reduced by the amount recovered as a forfeiture for the same act under s. 
938.45 (1r) (b).
SECTION  3138 .  938.341 of the statutes is amended to read:
938.341   Delinquency adjudication; restriction on firearm possession.   
Whenever a court adjudicates a juvenile delinquent for an act that if committed by 
an adult in this state would be a felony or for a violation under s. 175.33 (2), the 
court shall inform the juvenile of the requirements and penalties under s. 941.29.
SECTION  3139 .  938.343 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.343 (2)  FORFEITURE .  Impose a forfeiture not to exceed the maximum 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1777 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3139
forfeiture that may be imposed on an adult for committing that violation or, if the 
violation is only applicable to  a person under 18 years of age juveniles, $50.  The 
order shall include a finding that the juvenile alone is financially able to pay and 
shall allow up to 12 months for the payment.  If a juvenile fails to pay the forfeiture, 
the court may suspend any license issued under ch. 29 or suspend the juvenile [s 
operating privilege, as defined in s. 340.01 (40), for not more than 2 years.  The 
court shall immediately take possession of the suspended license if issued under ch. 
29 or, if the license is issued under ch. 343, the court may take possession of, and if 
possession is taken, shall destroy, the license.  The court shall forward to the 
department which that issued the license the notice of suspension stating that the 
suspension is for failure to pay a forfeiture imposed by the court, together with any 
license issued under ch. 29 of which the court takes possession.  If the forfeiture is 
paid during the period of suspension, the court shall immediately notify the 
department, which shall, if the license is issued under ch. 29, return the license to 
the person.  Any recovery under this subsection shall be reduced by the amount 
recovered as a forfeiture for the same act under s. 938.45 (1r) (b).
SECTION  3140 .  938.344 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.344 (3)  PROSECUTION  IN ADULT  COURT .  If the juvenile alleged to have 
committed the violation is within 3 months of his or her 17th birthday becoming an 
adult, the court assigned to exercise jurisdiction under this chapter and ch. 48 may, 
at the request of the district attorney or on its own motion, dismiss the citation 
without prejudice and refer the matter to the district attorney for prosecution under 
s. 125.07 (4).  The juvenile is entitled to a hearing only on the issue of his or her age.  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1778 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3140
This subsection does not apply to violations under s. 961.573 (2), 961.574 (2), or 
961.575 (2) or a local ordinance that strictly conforms to one of those statutes.
SECTION  3141 .  938.35 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.35 (1m)   FUTURE  CRIMINAL  PROCEEDINGS  BARRED .  Disposition by the 
court assigned to exercise jurisdiction under this chapter and ch. 48 of any 
allegation under s. 938.12 or 938.13 (12) shall bar any future proceeding on the 
same matter in criminal court when the juvenile attains 17 years of age becomes an 
adult.  This subsection does not affect proceedings in criminal court that have been 
transferred under s. 938.18.
SECTION  3142 .  938.355 (2) (b) 4. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3143 .  938.355 (2) (b) 6. of the statutes is renumbered 938.355 (2) (b) 
6. a. and amended to read:
938.355 (2) (b) 6. a.  If the juvenile is placed outside the home, a finding that 
continued placement of the juvenile in his or her home would be contrary to the 
welfare of the juvenile or, if.
b.  If the juvenile has been adjudicated delinquent and is placed outside the 
home under s. 938.34 (3) (a), (c), (cm), or (d) or (4d), in addition to the finding under 
subd. 6. a., a finding that the juvenile [s current residence will not safeguard the 
welfare of the juvenile or the community due to the serious nature of the act for 
which the juvenile was adjudicated delinquent.
c.  The court order under subd. 6. a. or b. shall also contain a finding as to 
whether the county department or the agency primarily responsible for providing 
services under a court order has made reasonable efforts to prevent the removal of 
the juvenile from the home, while assuring that the juvenile [s health and safety are 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1779 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3143
the paramount concerns, unless the court finds that any of the circumstances under 
sub. (2d) (b) 1. to 4. applies, and, if a permanency plan has previously been prepared 
for the juvenile, a finding as to whether the county department or agency has made 
reasonable efforts to achieve the permanency goal of the juvenile [s permanency 
plan, including, if appropriate, through an out-of-state placement.
d.  The court shall make the findings specified in this subdivision on a case-by-
case basis based on circumstances specific to the juvenile and shall document or 
reference the specific information on which those findings are based in the court 
order.  A court order that merely references this subdivision without documenting 
or referencing that specific information in the court order or an amended court 
order that retroactively corrects an earlier court order that does not comply with 
this subdivision is not sufficient to comply with this subdivision.
SECTION  3144 .  938.355 (4) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.355 (4) (b)  Except as provided in s. 938.368, an order under s. 938.34 (4d) 
or (4m) made before the juvenile attains 18 years of age may apply for up to 2 years 
after the date on which the order is granted or until the juvenile [s 18th 19th 
birthday, whichever is earlier, unless the court specifies a shorter period of time or 
the court terminates the order sooner.  If the order does not specify a termination 
date, it shall apply for one year after the date on which the order is granted or until 
the juvenile [s 18th 19th birthday, whichever is earlier, unless the court terminates 
the order sooner.  Except as provided in s. 938.368, an order under s. 938.34 (4h) 
made before the juvenile attains 18 years of age shall apply for 5 years after the date 
on which the order is granted, if the juvenile is adjudicated delinquent for 
committing a violation of s. 943.10 (2) or for committing an act that would be 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1780 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3144
punishable as a Class B or C felony if committed by an adult, or until the juvenile 
reaches 25 years of age, if the juvenile is adjudicated delinquent for committing an 
act that would be punishable as a Class A felony if committed by an adult.  Except 
as provided in s. 938.368, an extension of an order under s. 938.34 (4d), (4h), (4m), 
or (4n) made before the juvenile attains 17 years of age becomes an adult shall 
terminate at the end of one year after the date on which the order is granted unless 
the court specifies a shorter period of time or the court terminates the order sooner.  
No extension under s. 938.365 of an original dispositional order under s. 938.34 
(4d), (4h), (4m), or (4n) may be granted for a juvenile who is 17 years of age or older 
when becomes an adult by the time the original dispositional order terminates.
SECTION  3145 .  938.355 (4m) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.355 (4m)  (a)  A juvenile who has been adjudged delinquent under s. 48.12, 
1993 stats., or s. 938.12 may, on attaining 17 years of age becoming an adult, 
petition the court to expunge the court [s record of the juvenile [s adjudication.  
Subject to par. (b), the court may expunge the record if the court determines that 
the juvenile has satisfactorily complied with the conditions of his or her 
dispositional order and that the juvenile will benefit from, and society will not be 
harmed by, the expungement.
SECTION  3146 .  938.357 (3) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.357 (3) (d)  A juvenile who is placed in a Type 1 juvenile correctional 
facility under par. (b) or (c) is the financial responsibility of the county department 
of the county where the juvenile was adjudicated delinquent.  The county 
department shall reimburse the department of corrections at the rate specified 
under s. 301.26 (4) (d) 2. or 3., whichever is applicable, for the cost of a juvenile [s 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1781 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3146
care while placed in a Type 1 juvenile correctional facility other than the Mendota 
juvenile treatment center.  The county department shall reimburse the department 
of health services at a rate specified by that department for the cost of a juvenile [s 
care while placed at the Mendota juvenile treatment center and these payments 
shall be deposited in the appropriation account under s. 20.435 (2) (gk).
SECTION  3147 .  938.357 (5m) (a) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3148 .  938.357 (5m) (b) of the statutes is renumbered 938.357 (5m).
SECTION  3149 .  938.36 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
938.36 (4)  CHILD  SUPPORT  REFERRAL .  (a)  The county department or the 
department may refer to the attorney responsible for support enforcement under s. 
59.53 (6) (a) the name of the parent or parents of a juvenile for whom an out-of-
home placement has been ordered under s. 938.355 or 938.357 based on criteria 
established by the department by rule.
(b)  The department shall promulgate rules establishing criteria for when it is 
appropriate for a child support referral to be made under par. (a).
SECTION  3150 .  938.363 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.363 (2)  REVISION  OF SUPPORT .  If the court revises the amount of child 
support to be paid by a parent under the a dispositional order entered before July 1, 
2026, for the care and maintenance of the parent [s juvenile who has been placed by 
a court order under this chapter in a residential, nonmedical facility, the court shall 
determine the liability of the parent under s. 301.12 (14).
SECTION  3151 .  938.38 (2) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.38 (2) (f)  The juvenile [s care would be paid for under s. 49.19 but for s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1782 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3151
49.19 (20), except that this paragraph does not apply to a juvenile whose care is 
being paid for under s. 48.623 (1) (1r).
SECTION  3152 .  938.38 (4) (j) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.38 (4) (j) (intro.)  If the juvenile is placed in the home of a relative or other 
person described in s. 48.623 (1) (1r) (b) 1. who will be receiving subsidized 
guardianship payments, a description of all of the following:
SECTION  3153 .  938.38 (4) (j) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
938.38 (4) (j) 3.  The reasons why a permanent placement with a fit and 
willing relative or other person described in s. 48.623 (1) (1r) (b) 1. through a 
subsidized guardianship arrangement is in the best interests of the juvenile.  In the 
case of an Indian juvenile, the best interests of the Indian juvenile shall be 
determined in accordance with s. 938.01 (3).
SECTION  3154 .  938.38 (4) (j) 4. of the statutes is amended to read:
938.38 (4) (j) 4.  The ways in which the juvenile and the relative or other 
person described in s. 48.623 (1) (1r) (b) 1. meet the eligibility requirements 
specified in s. 48.623 (1) (1r) for the receipt of subsidized guardianship payments.
SECTION  3155 .  938.38 (4) (j) 5. of the statutes is amended to read:
938.38 (4) (j) 5.  The efforts the agency has made to discuss adoption of the 
juvenile by the relative or other person described in s. 48.623 (1) (1r) (b) 1. as a more 
permanent alternative to guardianship and, if that relative or other person has 
chosen not to pursue adoption, documentation of the reasons for not pursuing 
adoption.
SECTION  3156 .  938.39 of the statutes is amended to read:
938.39   Disposition by court bars criminal proceeding.   Disposition by 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1783 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3156
the court of any violation of state law within its jurisdiction under s. 938.12 bars 
any future criminal proceeding on the same matter in circuit court when the 
juvenile reaches the age of 17 becomes an adult.  This section does not affect 
criminal proceedings in circuit court that were transferred under s. 938.18.
SECTION  3157 .  938.396 (2g) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.396 (2g) (g)  Paternity Parentage of juvenile.   Upon request of a court 
having jurisdiction over actions affecting the family, an attorney responsible for 
support enforcement under s. 59.53 (6) (a) or a party to a paternity proceeding 
under subch. IX of ch. 767, the party [s attorney or the guardian ad litem for the 
juvenile who is the subject of that proceeding to review or be provided with 
information from the records of the court assigned to exercise jurisdiction under 
this chapter and ch. 48 relating to the paternity parentage of a juvenile for the 
purpose of determining the paternity parentage of the juvenile or for the purpose of 
rebutting the presumption of paternity under s. 891.405, 891.407, or the 
presumption of parentage under s. 891.405 or 891.41, the court assigned to exercise 
jurisdiction under this chapter and ch. 48 shall open for inspection by the requester 
its records relating to the paternity parentage of the juvenile or disclose to the 
requester those records.
SECTION  3158 .  Subchapter IX (title) of chapter 938 [precedes 938.44] of the 
statutes is amended to read:
CHAPTER 938
SUBCHAPTER IX 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1784 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3158
JURISDICTION OVER PERSONS 17 
OR OLDER ADULTS
SECTION  3159 .  938.44 of the statutes is amended to read:
938.44   Jurisdiction over persons 17 or older adults.   The court has 
jurisdiction over persons 17 years of age or older adults as provided under ss. 
938.355 (4), 938.357 (6), 938.365 (5), and 938.45 and as otherwise specified in this 
chapter.
SECTION  3160 .  938.45 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.45 (1) (a)  If in the hearing of a case of a juvenile alleged to be delinquent 
under s. 938.12 or in need of protection or services under s. 938.13 it appears that 
any person 17 years of age or older adult has been guilty of contributing to, 
encouraging, or tending to cause by any act or omission, such that condition of the 
juvenile, the court may make orders with respect to the conduct of that person in his 
or her relationship to the juvenile, including orders relating to determining the 
ability of the person to provide for the maintenance or care of the juvenile and 
directing when, how, and from where funds for the maintenance or care shall be 
paid.
SECTION  3161 .  938.45 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.45 (3)  P ROSECUTION  OF ADULT  CONTRIBUTING  TO DELINQUENCY  OF 
JUVENILE .  If it appears at a court hearing that any person 17 years of age or older 
adult has violated s. 948.40, the court shall refer the record to the district attorney.  
This subsection does not prohibit prosecution of violations of s. 948.40 without the 
prior reference by the court to the district attorney.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1785 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3162
SECTION  3162 .  938.48 (4m) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.48 (4m)  (title)  C ONTINUING  CARE  AND SERVICES  FOR JUVENILES  OVER  17 
WHO BECOME  ADULTS .
SECTION  3163 .  938.48 (4m) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.48 (4m)  (a)  Is at least 17 years of age an adult.
SECTION  3164 .  938.48 (4m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.48 (4m)  (b)  Was under the supervision of the department under s. 
938.183, 938.34 (4h), or 938.357 (3) or (4) when the person reached 17 years of age 
became an adult.
SECTION  3165 .  938.48 (14) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.48 (14)  SCHOOL -RELATED  EXPENSES  FOR JUVENILES  OVER  17 WHO BECOME  
ADULTS .  Pay maintenance, tuition, and related expenses from the appropriation 
under s. 20.410 (3) (ho) for persons who, when they attained 17 years of age became 
adults, were students regularly attending a school, college, or university or 
regularly attending a course of vocational or technical training designed to prepare 
them for gainful employment, and who upon attaining that age becoming adults 
were under the supervision of the department under s. 938.183, 938.34 (4h), or 
938.357 (3) or (4) as a result of a judicial decision.
SECTION  3166 .  938.57 (3) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.57 (3) (title)  C ONTINUING  MAINTENANCE  FOR JUVENILES  OVER  17 WHO 
BECOME  ADULTS .
SECTION  3167 .  938.57 (3) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.57 (3) (a) (intro.)  From the reimbursement received under s. 48.569 (1) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1786 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3167
(d), counties may provide funding for the maintenance of any juvenile person who 
meets all of the following qualifications:
SECTION  3168 .  938.57 (3) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
938.57 (3) (a) 1.  Is 17 years of age or older an adult.
SECTION  3169 .  938.57 (3) (a) 3. of the statutes is amended to read:
938.57 (3) (a) 3.  Received funding under s. 48.569 (1) (d) immediately prior to 
his or her 17th birthday becoming an adult.
SECTION  3170 .  938.57 (3) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
938.57 (3) (b)  The funding provided for the maintenance of a juvenile person 
under par. (a) shall be in an amount equal to that which the juvenile person would 
receive under s. 48.569 (1) (d) if the person were a juvenile were 16 years of age.
SECTION  3171 .  939.22 (22) of the statutes is amended to read:
939.22 (22)  XPeace officer Y means any person vested by law with a duty to 
maintain public order or to make arrests for crime, whether that duty extends to all 
crimes or is limited to specific crimes.  XPeace officer Y includes a commission 
warden, a marshal of the supreme court under s. 758.195, and a university police 
officer, as defined in s. 175.42 (1) (b).
SECTION  3172 .  939.6195 (1) (a) 1. of the statutes is amended to read:
939.6195 (1) (a) 1.  A violation of s. 941.29 or, 941.2905, or 941.293.
SECTION  3173 .  941.285 of the statutes is created to read:
941.285   Possession of firearm accessories that accelerate the rate of 
fire.  (1)   No person may import, sell or offer to sell, purchase, manufacture, 
transfer, use, or possess a trigger crank, a bump-fire device, or any part, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1787 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3173
combination of parts, component, device, attachment, or accessory that is added 
after manufacture that is designed to accelerate or functions to accelerate the rate 
of fire of a semiautomatic firearm.
(2)  Any person violating sub. (1) is guilty of a Class G felony.
(3)  Subsection (1) does not apply to importation, sale, purchase, manufacture, 
transfer, use, or possession by or under the authority of the federal government or a 
state or local government.
SECTION  3174 .  941.29 (1g) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
941.29 (1g) (a)  XViolent felony Y means any felony under s. 943.23 (1m), 1999 
stats., s. 943.23 (1r), 1999 stats., or s. 943.23 (1g), 2021 stats., this section sub. (1m), 
or s. 940.01, 940.02, 940.03, 940.05, 940.06, 940.08, 940.09, 940.10, 940.19, 940.195, 
940.198, 940.20, 940.201, 940.203, 940.204, 940.21, 940.225, 940.23, 940.235, 
940.285 (2), 940.29, 940.295 (3), 940.30, 940.302, 940.305, 940.31, 940.43 (1) to (3), 
940.45 (1) to (3), 941.20, 941.26, 941.28, 941.285, 941.2905, 941.292, 941.293, 
941.30, 941.327 (2) (b) 3. or 4., 943.02, 943.04, 943.06, 943.10 (2), 943.231 (1), 
943.32, 943.87, 946.43, 948.02 (1) or (2), 948.025, 948.03, 948.04, 948.05, 948.051, 
948.06, 948.07, 948.08, 948.085, or 948.30.
SECTION  3175 .  941.29 (1m) (dm), (dn) and (do) of the statutes are created to 
read:
941.29 (1m)  (dm)  The person has been convicted of a misdemeanor under s. 
175.33 (2), unless at least 2 years have passed since the conviction.
(dn)  The person has been adjudicated delinquent for a violation under s. 
175.33 (2), unless at least 2 years have passed since the adjudication.
(do)  The person has been found not guilty of a misdemeanor under s. 175.33 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1788 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3175
(2) by reason of mental disease or defect, unless at least 2 years have passed since 
the finding.
SECTION  3176 .  941.29 (1m) (f) of the statutes is amended to read:
941.29 (1m)  (f)  The person is subject to an injunction issued under s. 813.12 
or 813.122, a temporary restraining order or an injunction issued under s. 813.124, 
or under a tribal injunction, as defined in s. 813.12 (1) (e), issued by a court 
established by any federally recognized Wisconsin Indian tribe or band, except the 
Menominee Indian tribe of Wisconsin, that includes notice to the respondent that 
he or she is subject to the requirements and penalties under this section and that 
has been filed under s. 813.128 (3g).
SECTION  3177 .  941.29 (3m) of the statutes is created to read:
941.29 (3m)  (a)  A person who resides with a person who is prohibited under 
sub. (1m) from possessing a firearm shall, when not carrying the firearm, store any 
firearm he or she possesses in a securely locked box or container or in a locked 
location that a reasonable person would believe to be secure or ensure that a trigger 
lock is engaged on the firearm.
(b)  A person who violates par. (a) is guilty of the following:
1.  For a first violation, a Class A misdemeanor.
2.  For a 2nd or subsequent violation, a Class I felony.
SECTION  3178 .  941.291 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
941.291 (1) (b)  XViolent felony Y means any felony, or the solicitation, 
conspiracy, or attempt to commit any felony, under s. 943.23 (1m) or (1r), 1999 
stats., or s. 943.23 (1g), 2021 stats., or s. 940.01, 940.02, 940.03, 940.05, 940.06, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1789 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3178
940.08, 940.09, 940.10, 940.19, 940.195, 940.198, 940.20, 940.201, 940.203, 
940.204, 940.21, 940.225, 940.23, 940.285 (2), 940.29, 940.295 (3), 940.30, 940.305, 
940.31, 940.43 (1) to (3), 940.45 (1) to (3), 941.20, 941.26, 941.28, 941.285, 941.29 
(1m), 941.293, 941.30, 941.327, 943.01 (2) (c), 943.011, 943.013, 943.02, 943.04, 
943.06, 943.10 (2), 943.231 (1), 943.32, 943.81, 943.82, 943.83, 943.85, 943.86, 
943.87, 943.88, 943.89, 943.90, 946.43, 947.015, 948.02 (1) or (2), 948.025, 948.03, 
948.04, 948.05, 948.06, 948.07, 948.08, 948.085, or 948.30; or, if the victim is a 
financial institution, as defined in s. 943.80 (2), a felony, or the solicitation, 
conspiracy, or attempt to commit a felony under s. 943.84 (1) or (2).
SECTION  3179 .  941.293 of the statutes is created to read:
941.293   Undetectable firearms; serial numbers on firearm 
components.   (1)  In this section:
(a)  XMajor component Y means the barrel, the slide or cylinder, or the frame or 
receiver of a firearm.
(b)  XUndetectable firearm Y means any of the following:
1.  A firearm that, after the removal of grips, stocks, and magazines, is not 
detectable by a metal detector calibrated to detect a security exemplar, as defined in 
18 USC 922 (p) (2) (C).
2.  A firearm if any major component of it does not generate an image that 
accurately depicts the shape of the component when subject to inspection by 
security scanners, x-ray machines, or other security devices commonly used at 
airports.
(2) (a) 1.  Whoever sells, offers to sell, transfers, transports, manufactures, 
possesses, or goes armed with an undetectable firearm is guilty of a Class G felony.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1790 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3179
2.  Whoever sells, offers to sell, transfers, posts, provides to another, or 
possesses plans for manufacturing an undetectable firearm is guilty of a Class H 
felony.
(b)  Paragraph (a) does not apply to a person who is licensed by a state or the 
federal government to manufacture undetectable firearms while the person is on 
official duty.  Paragraph (a) 1. does not apply to a law enforcement officer while on 
official duty or to armed forces or national guard personnel while on official duty.
(3) (a)  Whoever possesses a frame or a receiver of a firearm that is not 
attached to a firearm and that is not marked or engraved with a serial number is 
guilty of a Class I felony.
(b)  Paragraph (a) does not apply to a firearm frame or receiver manufactured 
before 1968, a person who is licensed by a state or the federal government to 
manufacture undetectable firearms while the person is on official duty, a law 
enforcement officer while on official duty, or armed forces or national guard 
personnel while on official duty.
SECTION  3180 .  943.20 (2) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
943.20 (2) (c)  XProperty of another Y includes property in which the actor is a 
co-owner and property of a partnership of which the actor is a member, unless the 
actor and the victim are husband and wife married to each other.
SECTION  3181 .  943.201 (1) (b) 8. of the statutes is amended to read:
943.201 (1) (b) 8.  The maiden name surname of an individual [s mother parent 
before marriage if the surname was changed as a result of marriage.
SECTION  3182 .  943.205 (2) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1791 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3182
943.205 (2) (b)  XOwnerY includes a co-owner of the person charged and a 
partnership of which the person charged is a member, unless the person charged 
and the victim are husband and wife married to each other.
SECTION  3183 .  943.395 (1) (e) of the statutes is created to read:
943.395 (1) (e)  Presents an application for worker [s compensation insurance 
coverage that is false or fraudulent or that falsely or fraudulently misclassifies 
employees to lower worker [s compensation insurance premiums.
SECTION  3184 .  946.15 of the statutes is created to read:
946.15   Public construction contracts at less than full rate.  (1)   Any 
employer, or any agent or employee of an employer, who induces any individual who 
seeks to be or is employed pursuant to a public contract, as defined in s. 66.0901 (1) 
(c), or who seeks to be or is employed on a project on which a prevailing wage rate 
determination has been issued by the department of workforce development under 
s. 66.0903 (3), 103.49 (3), 103.50 (3), or 229.8275 (3) to give up, waive, or return any 
part of the compensation to which that individual is entitled under his or her 
contract of employment or under the prevailing wage rate determination issued by 
the department, or who reduces the hourly basic rate of pay normally paid to an 
employee for work on a project on which a prevailing wage rate determination has 
not been issued under s. 66.0903 (3), 103.49 (3), 103.50 (3), or 229.8275 (3) during a 
week in which the employee works both on a project on which a prevailing wage rate 
determination has been issued and on a project on which a prevailing wage rate 
determination has not been issued, is guilty of a Class I felony.
(2)  Any individual employed pursuant to a public contract, as defined in s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1792 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3184
66.0901 (1) (c), or employed on a project on which a prevailing wage rate 
determination has been issued by the department of workforce development under 
s. 66.0903 (3), 103.49 (3), 103.50 (3), or 229.8275 (3) who gives up, waives, or returns 
to the employer or agent of the employer any part of the compensation to which the 
employee is entitled under his or her contract of employment or under the 
prevailing wage determination issued by the department, or who gives up any part 
of the compensation to which he or she is normally entitled for work on a project on 
which a prevailing wage rate determination has not been issued under s. 66.0903 
(3), 103.49 (3), 103.50 (3), or 229.8275 (3) during a week in which the individual 
works part-time on a project on which a prevailing wage rate determination has 
been issued and part-time on a project on which a prevailing wage rate 
determination has not been issued, is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.
(3)  Any employer or labor organization, or any agent or employee of an 
employer or labor organization, who induces any individual who seeks to be or is 
employed on a project on which a prevailing wage rate determination has been 
issued by the department of workforce development under s. 66.0903 (3), 103.49 (3), 
103.50 (3), or 229.8275 (3) to allow any part of the wages to which that individual is 
entitled under the prevailing wage rate determination issued by the department or 
local governmental unit to be deducted from the individual [s pay is guilty of a Class 
I felony, unless the deduction would be allowed under 29 CFR 3.5 or 3.6 from an 
individual who is working on a project that is subject to 40 USC 3142.
(4)  Any individual employed on a project on which a prevailing wage rate 
determination has been issued by the department of workforce development under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1793 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3184
s. 66.0903 (3), 103.49 (3), 103.50 (3), or 229.8275 (3) who allows any part of the 
wages to which that individual is entitled under the prevailing wage rate 
determination issued by the department or local governmental unit to be deducted 
from his or her pay is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, unless the deduction would 
be allowed under 29 CFR 3.5 or 3.6 from an individual who is working on a project 
that is subject to 40 USC 3142.
SECTION  3185 .  946.50 (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
946.50   Absconding.   (intro.)  Any person who is adjudicated delinquent, but 
who intentionally fails to appear before the court assigned to exercise jurisdiction 
under chs. 48 and 938 for his or her dispositional hearing under s. 938.335, and who 
does not return to that court for a dispositional hearing before attaining the age of 
17 years becoming an adult is guilty of the following:
SECTION  3186 .  947.01 (1) of the statutes is renumbered 947.01 (1) (intro.) and 
amended to read:
947.01 (1) (intro.)  Whoever, in a public or private place, engages in violent, 
abusive, any of the following is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor:
(b)  Abusive, indecent, profane, boisterous, unreasonably loud or otherwise 
disorderly conduct under circumstances in which the conduct tends to cause or 
provoke a disturbance is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
SECTION  3187 .  947.01 (1) (a) of the statutes is created to read:
947.01 (1) (a)  Violent behavior that involves the use or attempted use of 
physical force or the use of or threat to use a dangerous weapon.
SECTION  3188 .  947.20 of the statutes is repealed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1794 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3189
SECTION  3189 .  947.21 of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3190 .  948.01 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
948.01 (1)  XChildY means a person who has not attained the age of 18 years, 
except that for purposes of prosecuting a person who is alleged to have violated a 
state or federal criminal law, XchildY does not include a person who has attained the 
age of 17 years.
SECTION  3191 .  948.11 (2) (am) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
948.11 (2) (am) (intro.)  Any person who has attained the age of 17 and adult 
who, with knowledge of the character and content of the description or narrative 
account, verbally communicates, by any means, a harmful description or narrative 
account to a child, with or without monetary consideration, is guilty of a Class I 
felony if any of the following applies:
SECTION  3192 .  948.45 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
948.45 (1)  Except as provided in sub. (2), any person 17 years of age or older 
adult who, by any act or omission, knowingly encourages or contributes to the 
truancy, as defined under s. 118.16 (1) (c), of a person 17 years of age or under child 
is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor.
SECTION  3193 .  948.55 of the statutes is repealed and recreated to read:
948.55   Storage of firearm if children present.   (1)  Whoever resides with 
a child, or knows a child will be present in his or her residence, may not store or 
leave a firearm at his or her residence unless the firearm is in a securely locked box 
or container or in a locked location that a reasonable person would believe to be 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1795 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3193
secure or unless a trigger lock is engaged on the firearm.  This prohibition does not 
apply to a person who is going armed with the firearm.
(2)  A person who violates sub. (1) is guilty of the following:
(a)  For a first violation, a Class A misdemeanor.
(b)  For a 2nd or subsequent violation, a Class I felony.
SECTION  3194 .  948.60 (2) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
948.60 (2) (d)  A person under 17 years of age child who has violated this 
subsection is subject to the provisions of ch. 938 unless jurisdiction is waived under 
s. 938.18 or the person is subject to the jurisdiction of a court of criminal 
jurisdiction under s. 938.183.
SECTION  3195 .  948.61 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
948.61 (4)  A person under 17 years of age child who has violated this section 
is subject to the provisions of ch. 938, unless jurisdiction is waived under s. 938.18 
or the person is subject to the jurisdiction of a court of criminal jurisdiction under s. 
938.183.
SECTION  3196 .  950.04 (1v) (g) of the statutes is amended to read:
950.04 (1v) (g)  To have reasonable attempts made to notify the victim of 
hearings or court proceedings, as provided under ss. 302.113 (9g) (g) 2., 302.114 (6), 
938.27 (4m) and (6), 938.273 (2), 971.095 (3) and, 972.14 (3) (b), and 973.015 (1m) 
(c).
SECTION  3197 .  961.01 (14) of the statutes is renumbered 961.70 (2) and 
amended to read:
961.70 (2)  XMarijuana Y means all parts of the plants of the genus Cannabis, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1796 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3197
whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of the 
plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation 
of the plant, its seeds or resin, including if the tetrahydrocannabinols concentration 
of the plant part, seeds, resin, compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or 
preparation is greater than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis.  XMarijuana Y does 
include the mature stalks if mixed with other parts of the plant, but does not 
include fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, 
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the 
mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake or the 
sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.  XMarijuana Y does not 
include hemp, as defined in s. 94.55 (1).
SECTION  3198 .  961.01 (19) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.01 (19) (a)  A physician, advanced practice registered nurse, dentist, 
veterinarian, podiatrist, optometrist, scientific investigator or, subject to s. 448.975 
(1) (b), a physician assistant, or other person licensed, registered, certified or 
otherwise permitted to distribute, dispense, conduct research with respect to, 
administer or use in teaching or chemical analysis a controlled substance in the 
course of professional practice or research in this state.
SECTION  3199 .  961.11 (4g) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3200 .  961.14 (4) (t) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3201 .  961.32 (2m) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3202 .  961.34 of the statutes is renumbered 961.75, and 961.75 
(title), as renumbered, is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1797 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3202
961.75   (title)  Controlled substances Marijuana therapeutic research.
SECTION  3203 .  961.38 (1n) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3204 .  961.385 (2) (cm) 3. b. of the statutes is amended to read:
961.385 (2) (cm) 3. b.  The state board or agency, agency of another state, law 
enforcement agency, or prosecutorial unit makes a written request for the record 
and is monitoring the patient as part of a drug court, as defined in s. 165.955 (1), 
2023 stats.
SECTION  3205 .  961.395 of the statutes is amended to read:
961.395   Limitation on advanced practice registered nurses.   (1)  An 
advanced practice registered nurse who is certified may issue prescription orders 
under s. 441.16 441.09 (2) may prescribe controlled substances only as permitted by 
the rules promulgated under s. 441.16 (3) 441.09 (6) (a) 4.
(2)  An advanced practice registered nurse certified under s. 441.16 who may 
issue prescription orders under s. 441.09 (2) shall include with each prescription 
order the advanced practice nurse prescriber certification license number issued to 
him or her by the board of nursing.
(3)  An advanced practice registered nurse certified under s. 441.16 who may 
issue prescription orders under s. 441.09 (2) may dispense a controlled substance 
only by prescribing or administering the controlled substance or as otherwise 
permitted by the rules promulgated under s. 441.16 (3) 441.09 (6) (a) 4.
SECTION  3206 .  961.41 (1) (h) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3207 .  961.41 (1m) (h) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3208 .  961.41 (1q) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3209 .  961.41 (1r) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1798 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3209
961.41 (1r)  DETERMINING  WEIGHT  OF SUBSTANCE .  In determining amounts 
under s. 961.49 (2) (b), 1999 stats., and subs. (1) and (1m), an amount includes the 
weight of cocaine, cocaine base, fentanyl, a fentanyl analog, heroin, phencyclidine, 
lysergic acid diethylamide, psilocin, psilocybin, amphetamine, methamphetamine, 
tetrahydrocannabinols, synthetic cannabinoids, or substituted cathinones, or any 
controlled substance analog of any of these substances together with any compound, 
mixture, diluent, plant material or other substance mixed or combined with the 
controlled substance or controlled substance analog.  In addition, in determining 
amounts under subs. (1) (h) and (1m) (h), the amount of tetrahydrocannabinols 
means anything included under s. 961.14 (4) (t) and includes the weight of any 
marijuana.
SECTION  3210 .  961.41 (1x) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.41 (1x)  CONSPIRACY .  Any person who conspires, as specified in s. 939.31, 
to commit a crime under sub. (1) (cm) to (h) (g) or (1m) (cm) to (h) (g) is subject to the 
applicable penalties under sub. (1) (cm) to (h) (g) or (1m) (cm) to (h) (g).
SECTION  3211 .  961.41 (3g) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.41 (3g) (c)  Cocaine and cocaine base.   If a person possesses or attempts to 
possess cocaine or cocaine base, or a controlled substance analog of cocaine or 
cocaine base, the person shall be fined not more than $5,000 and may be imprisoned 
for not more than one year in the county jail upon a first conviction and is guilty of 
a Class I felony for a 2nd or subsequent offense.  For purposes of this paragraph, an 
offense is considered a 2nd or subsequent offense if, prior to the offender [s 
conviction of the offense, the offender has at any time been convicted of any felony or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1799 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3211
misdemeanor under this chapter or under any statute of the United States or of any 
state relating to controlled substances, controlled substance analogs, narcotic 
drugs, marijuana, or depressant, stimulant, or hallucinogenic drugs.
SECTION  3212 .  961.41 (3g) (d) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.41 (3g) (d)  Certain hallucinogenic and stimulant drugs.   If a person 
possesses or attempts to possess lysergic acid diethylamide, phencyclidine, 
amphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, methcathinone, cathinone, 
N-benzylpiperazine, a substance specified in s. 961.14 (4) (a) to (h), (m) to (q), (sm), 
(u) to (xb), or (7) (L), psilocin, or psilocybin, or a controlled substance analog of 
lysergic acid diethylamide, phencyclidine, amphetamine, 3,4-
methylenedioxymethamphetamine, methcathinone, cathinone, N-benzylpiperazine, 
a substance specified in s. 961.14 (4) (a) to (h), (m) to (q), (sm), (u) to (xb), or (7) (L), 
psilocin, or psilocybin, the person may be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned 
for not more than one year in the county jail or both upon a first conviction and is 
guilty of a Class I felony for a 2nd or subsequent offense.  For purposes of this 
paragraph, an offense is considered a 2nd or subsequent offense if, prior to the 
offender [s conviction of the offense, the offender has at any time been convicted of 
any felony or misdemeanor under this chapter or under any statute of the United 
States or of any state relating to controlled substances, controlled substance 
analogs, narcotic drugs, marijuana, or depressant, stimulant, or hallucinogenic 
drugs.
SECTION  3213 .  961.41 (3g) (e) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3214 .  961.41 (3g) (em) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1800 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3214
961.41 (3g) (em)  Synthetic cannabinoids.   If a person possesses or attempts to 
possess a controlled substance specified in s. 961.14 (4) (tb), or a controlled 
substance analog of a controlled substance specified in s. 961.14 (4) (tb), the person 
may be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than 6 months or 
both upon a first conviction and is guilty of a Class I felony for a 2nd or subsequent 
offense.  For purposes of this paragraph, an offense is considered a 2nd or 
subsequent offense if, prior to the offender [s conviction of the offense, the offender 
has at any time been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor under this chapter or 
under any statute of the United States or of any state relating to controlled 
substances, controlled substance analogs, narcotic drugs, marijuana, or depressant, 
stimulant, or hallucinogenic drugs.
SECTION  3215 .  961.41 (5) (c) 2. of the statutes is amended to read:
961.41 (5) (c) 2.  All moneys in excess of $850,000 and up to $1,275,000 plus 
one-third of moneys in excess of $1,275,000 collected in each fiscal year from drug 
surcharges under this subsection shall be credited to the appropriation account 
under s. 20.455 (2) (kv) 20.625 (1) (kv).
SECTION  3216 .  961.443 (2) (title) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.443 (2) (title)  I MMUNITY  FROM  CRIMINAL  PROSECUTION  AND REVOCATION  
OF PAROLE , PROBATION , OR EXTENDED  SUPERVISION .
SECTION  3217 .  961.443 (2) of the statutes is renumbered 961.443 (2) (a) and 
amended to read:
961.443 (2) (a)  An No aider may have his or her parole, probation, or extended 
supervision revoked, and an aider is immune from prosecution under s. 961.573 for 
the possession of drug paraphernalia, under s. 961.41 (3g) for the possession of a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1801 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3217
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog, and under s. 961.69 (2) for 
possession of a masking agent under the circumstances surrounding or leading to 
his or her commission of an act described in sub. (1) if the aider [s attempt to obtain 
assistance occurs immediately after the aider believes the other person is suffering 
from the overdose or other adverse reaction.
SECTION  3218 .  961.443 (2) (b) of the statutes is created to read:
961.443 (2) (b) 1.  No aided person person may have his or her parole, 
probation, or extended supervision revoked under the circumstances surrounding 
or leading to an aider [s commission of an act described in sub. (1) if the aided person 
completes a treatment program as a condition of his or her parole, probation, or 
extended supervision or, if a treatment program is unavailable or would be 
prohibitive financially, agrees to be imprisoned in the county jail for not less than 
15 days.
2.  If an aided person is subject to prosecution under s. 961.573 for the 
possession of drug paraphernalia, under s. 961.41 (3g) for the possession of a 
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog, or under s. 961.69 (2) for 
possession of a masking agent under the circumstances surrounding or leading to 
an aider [s commission of an act described in sub. (1), the district attorney shall offer 
the aided person a deferred prosecution agreement that includes the completion of 
a treatment program.  This subdivision does not apply to an aided person who is on 
parole, probation, or extended supervision and fails to meet a condition under subd. 
1.
SECTION  3219 .  961.455 (title) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1802 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3219
961.455   (title)  Using a child minor for illegal drug distribution or 
manufacturing purposes.
SECTION  3220 .  961.455 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.455 (1)  Any person who has attained the age of 17 years adult who 
knowingly solicits, hires, directs, employs, or uses a person who is under the age of 
17 years minor for the purpose of violating s. 961.41 (1) is guilty of a Class F felony.
SECTION  3221 .  961.455 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.455 (2)  The knowledge requirement under sub. (1) does not require proof 
of knowledge of the age of the child minor.  It is not a defense to a prosecution under 
this section that the actor mistakenly believed that the person solicited, hired, 
directed, employed, or used under sub. (1) had attained the age of 18 years, even if 
the mistaken belief was reasonable.
SECTION  3222 .  961.46 of the statutes is amended to read:
961.46   Distribution to persons under age 18 minors.   If  a person 17 
years of age or over an adult violates s. 961.41 (1) by distributing or delivering a 
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog to a person 17 years of age or 
under minor who is at least 3 years his or her junior, the applicable maximum term 
of imprisonment prescribed under s. 961.41 (1) for the offense may be increased by 
not more than 5 years.
SECTION  3223 .  961.47 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.47 (1)  Whenever any person who has not previously been convicted of any 
offense under this chapter, or of any offense under any statute of the United States 
or of any state or of any county ordinance relating to controlled substances or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1803 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3223
controlled substance analogs, narcotic drugs, marijuana or stimulant, depressant, 
or hallucinogenic drugs, pleads guilty to or is found guilty of possession or 
attempted possession of a controlled substance or controlled substance analog 
under s. 961.41 (3g) (b), the court, without entering a judgment of guilt and with 
the consent of the accused, may defer further proceedings and place him or her on 
probation upon terms and conditions.  Upon violation of a term or condition, the 
court may enter an adjudication of guilt and proceed as otherwise provided.  Upon 
fulfillment of the terms and conditions, the court shall discharge the person and 
dismiss the proceedings against him or her.  Discharge and dismissal under this 
section shall be without adjudication of guilt and is not a conviction for purposes of 
disqualifications or disabilities imposed by law upon conviction of a crime, including 
the additional penalties imposed for 2nd or subsequent convictions under s. 961.48.  
There may be only one discharge and dismissal under this section with respect to 
any person.
SECTION  3224 .  961.472 (5) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.472 (5) (b)  The person is participating in a substance abuse treatment 
program that meets the requirements of s. 165.95 (3), as determined by the 
department of justice under s. 165.95 (9) and (10).
SECTION  3225 .  961.48 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.48 (3)  For purposes of this section, a felony offense under this chapter is 
considered a 2nd or subsequent offense if, prior to the offender [s conviction of the 
offense, the offender has at any time been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor 
offense under this chapter or under any statute of the United States or of any state 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1804 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3225
relating to controlled substances or controlled substance analogs, narcotic drugs, 
marijuana or depressant, stimulant, or hallucinogenic drugs.
SECTION  3226 .  961.48 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.48 (5)  This section does not apply if the person is presently charged with 
a felony under s. 961.41 (3g) (c), (d), (e), or (g).
SECTION  3227 .  961.49 (1m) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.49 (1m)  (intro.)  If any person violates s. 961.41 (1) (cm), (d), (dm), (e), (f), 
or (g) or (h) by delivering or distributing, or violates s. 961.41 (1m) (cm), (d), (dm), 
(e), (f), or (g) or (h) by possessing with intent to deliver or distribute, cocaine, 
cocaine base, fentanyl, a fentanyl analog, heroin, phencyclidine, lysergic acid 
diethylamide, psilocin, psilocybin, amphetamine, methamphetamine, or 
methcathinone or any form of tetrahydrocannabinols or a controlled substance 
analog of any of these substances and the delivery, distribution or possession takes 
place under any of the following circumstances, the maximum term of 
imprisonment prescribed by law for that crime may be increased by 5 years:
SECTION  3228 .  961.571 (1) (a) 7. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3229 .  961.571 (1) (a) 11. (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.571 (1) (a) 11. (intro.)  Objects used, designed for use or primarily 
intended for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, 
cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
SECTION  3230 .  961.571 (1) (a) 11. e. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3231 .  961.571 (1) (a) 11. k. and L. of the statutes are repealed.
SECTION  3232 .  961.573 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1805 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3232
961.573 (2)  Any person minor who violates sub. (1) who is under 17 years of 
age is subject to a disposition under s. 938.344 (2e).
SECTION  3233 .  961.574 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.574 (2)  Any person minor who violates sub. (1) who is under 17 years of 
age is subject to a disposition under s. 938.344 (2e).
SECTION  3234 .  961.575 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.575 (1)  Any person 17 years of age or over adult who violates s. 961.574 
(1) by delivering drug paraphernalia to a person 17 years of age or under minor who 
is at least 3 years younger than the violator may be fined not more than $10,000 or 
imprisoned for not more than 9 months or both.
SECTION  3235 .  961.575 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.575 (2)  Any person minor who violates this section who is under 17 years 
of age is subject to a disposition under s. 938.344 (2e).
SECTION  3236 .  961.575 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
961.575 (3)  Any person 17 years of age or over adult who violates s. 961.574 
(3) by delivering drug paraphernalia to a person 17 years of age or under minor is 
guilty of a Class G felony.
SECTION  3237 .  Subchapter VIII of chapter 961 [precedes 961.70] of the 
statutes is created to read:
CHAPTER 961
SUBCHAPTER VIII
REGULATION OF MARIJUANA
961.70   Definitions.   In this subchapter:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1806 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3237
(1)  XExtreme measure to avoid detection Y means any of the following:
(a)  A system that aims to alert a person if law enforcement approaches an 
area that contains marijuana plants if the system exceeds a security system that 
would be used by a reasonable person in the person [s region.
(b)  A method of intimidating individuals who approach an area that contains 
marijuana plants if the method exceeds a method that would be used by a 
reasonable person in the person [s region.
(c)  A system that is designed so that an individual approaching an area that 
contains marijuana plants may be injured or killed by the system.
(1m)   XLegal age Y means 21 years of age, except that in the case of a qualifying 
patient, as defined in s. 73.17 (1) (d), Xlegal age Y means 18 years of age.
(3)  XPermissible amount Y means one of the following:
(a)  For a person who is a resident of this state, an amount that does not exceed 
2 ounces of usable marijuana.
(b)  For a person who is not a resident of this state, an amount that does not 
exceed one-quarter ounce of usable marijuana.
(4)  XPermittee Y has the meaning given under s. 139.97 (10).
(5)  XRetail outlet Y has the meaning given in s. 139.97 (11).
(5m)   XTetrahydrocannabinol Y means any of the following:
(a)  Tetrahydrocannabinolic acid.
(b)  Any tetrahydrocannabinol including delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol, delta-
9-tetrahydrocannabinol, and delta-10-tetrahydrocannabinol, however derived.
(6)  XTetrahydrocannabinols concentration Y means the percentage of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1807 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3237
tetrahydrocannabinol content per dry weight of any part of the plant Cannabis, or 
per volume or weight of marijuana product, or the combined percentage of 
tetrahydrocannabinol and tetrahydrocannabinolic acid in any part of the plant 
Cannabis regardless of moisture content.
(7)  XUnderage person Y means a person who has not attained the legal age.
(8)  XUsable marijuana Y has the meaning given in s. 139.97 (13).
961.71   Underage persons prohibitions; penalties.   (1) (a) 1.  No 
permittee may sell, distribute, or deliver marijuana to any underage person.
2.  No permittee may directly or indirectly permit an underage person to 
violate sub. (2m).
(b)  A permittee that violates par. (a) 1. or 2. may be subject to a forfeiture of 
not more than $500 and to a suspension of the permittee [s permit for an amount of 
time not to exceed 30 days.
(c)  In determining whether a permittee has violated par. (a) 2., all relevant 
circumstances surrounding the presence of the underage person may be considered.  
In determining whether a permittee has violated par. (a) 1., all relevant 
circumstances surrounding the selling, distributing, or delivering of marijuana may 
be considered.  In addition, proof of all of the following facts by the permittee is a 
defense to any prosecution for a violation under par. (a):
1.  That the underage person falsely represented that they had attained the 
legal age.
2.  That the appearance of the underage person was such that an ordinary and 
prudent person would believe that the underage person had attained the legal age.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1808 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3237
3.  That the action was made in good faith and in reliance on the 
representation and appearance of the underage person in the belief that the 
underage person had attained the legal age.
4.  That the underage person supported the representation under subd. 1. with 
documentation that they had attained the legal age.
(2)  Any underage person who does any of the following is subject to a 
forfeiture of not less than $250 nor more than $500:
(a)  Procures or attempts to procure marijuana from a permittee.
(b)  Falsely represents their age for the purpose of receiving marijuana from a 
permittee.
(c)  Knowingly possesses or consumes marijuana.
(d)  Violates sub. (2m).
(2m)   An underage person not accompanied by their parent, guardian, or 
spouse who has attained the legal age may not enter, knowingly attempt to enter, or 
be on the premises of a retail outlet.
(3)  An individual who has attained the legal age and who knowingly does any 
of the following may be subject to a forfeiture that does not exceed $1,000:
(a)  Permits or fails to take action to prevent a violation of sub. (2) (c) on 
premises owned by the individual or under the individual [s control.
(b)  Encourages or contributes to a violation of sub. (2) (a).
961.72   Restrictions; penalties.   (1)  No person except a permittee may sell, 
or possess with the intent to sell, marijuana.  No person may distribute or deliver, or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1809 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3237
possess with the intent to distribute or deliver, marijuana except a permittee.  Any 
person who violates a prohibition under this subsection is guilty of the following:
(a)  Except as provided in par. (b), a Class I felony.
(b)  If the individual to whom the marijuana is, or is intended to be, sold, 
distributed, or delivered has not attained the legal age and the actual or intended 
seller, distributor, or deliverer is at least 3 years older than the individual to whom 
the marijuana is, or is intended to be, sold, distributed, or delivered, a Class H 
felony.
(2) (a)  A person who is not a permittee who possesses an amount of marijuana 
that exceeds the permissible amount by not more than one ounce is subject to a civil 
forfeiture not to exceed $1,000.
(b)  A person who is not a permittee who possesses an amount of marijuana 
that exceeds the permissible amount by more than one ounce is one of the following:
1.  Except as provided in subd. 2., subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000 or 
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both.
2.  Guilty of a Class I felony if the person has taken action to hide how much 
marijuana the person possesses and has in place an extreme measure to avoid 
detection.
(c)  A person who is not a permittee who possesses more than 6 marijuana 
plants that have reached the flowering stage at one time must apply for a permit 
under s. 139.972 and is one of the following:
1.  Except as provided in subds. 2. and 3., subject to a civil forfeiture that is not 
more than twice the permitting fee under s. 139.972.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1810 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3237
2.  Except as provided in subd. 3., subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000 or 
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both, if the number of marijuana plants that 
have reached the flowering stage is more than 12.
3.  Guilty of a Class I felony if the number of marijuana plants that have 
reached the flowering stage is more than 12, if the individual has taken action to 
hide the number of marijuana plants that have reached the flowering stage and if 
the person has in place an extreme measure to avoid detection.
(d)  Whoever uses or displays marijuana in a public space is subject to a civil 
forfeiture of not more than $100.
(3)  Any person who sells or attempts to sell marijuana via mail, telephone, or 
Internet is subject to a fine not to exceed $10,000 or imprisonment not to exceed 9 
months, or both.
SECTION  3238 .  967.055 (1m) (b) 5. of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3239 .  967.056 of the statutes is created to read:
967.056   Prosecution of offenses; disorderly conduct.   (1)  If a person is 
accused of or charged with disorderly conduct in violation of s. 947.01 or a local 
ordinance in conformity with s. 947.01, a prosecutor shall offer the person an 
alternative to prosecution under sub. (2) if all of the following apply:
(a)  The accused or charged violation is the person [s first violation of s. 947.01.
(b)  The person has not previously been convicted of a misdemeanor or felony 
for conduct that is substantially similar to the accused or charged violation.
(c)  The person has not been convicted of a felony in this state, or of a violation 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1811 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3239
in another state that would be a felony if committed by an adult in this state, in the 
preceding 3 years.
(2)  A prosecutor shall offer one of the following alternatives to prosecution to 
a qualifying person under sub. (1):
(a)  A deferred prosecution agreement that includes restitution, if applicable.
(b)  An agreement in which the defendant stipulates to his or her guilt of a 
noncriminal ordinance violation that includes payment of a forfeiture.
SECTION  3240 .  967.11 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
967.11 (1)  In this section, Xapproved substance abuse treatment program Y 
means a substance abuse treatment program that meets the requirements of s. 
165.95 (3), as determined by the department of justice under s. 165.95 (9) and (10).
SECTION  3241 .  968.02 (4) of the statutes is amended to read:
968.02 (4)  If the alleged violator under s. 948.55 (2) or 948.60 (2) (c) is or was 
the parent or guardian of a child who is injured or dies as a result of an accidental 
shooting, the district attorney may consider, among other factors, the impact of the 
injury or death on the alleged violator when deciding whether to issue a complaint 
regarding the alleged violation.  This subsection does not restrict the factors that a 
district attorney may consider in deciding whether to issue a complaint regarding 
any alleged violation.
SECTION  3242 .  968.07 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
968.07 (3)  If the alleged violator under s. 948.55 (2) or 948.60 (2) (c) is or was 
the parent or guardian of a child who is injured or dies as a result of an accidental 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1812 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3242
shooting, no law enforcement officer may arrest the alleged violator until at least 7 
days after the date of the shooting.
SECTION  3243 .  968.075 (1) (a) (intro.) of the statutes is amended to read:
968.075 (1) (a) (intro.)  XDomestic abuse Y means any of the following engaged 
in by an adult person against his or her spouse or former spouse, against an adult 
with whom the person resides or formerly resided or against an adult with whom 
the person has a child in common a relative of the adult person:
SECTION  3244 .  968.075 (1) (f) of the statutes is created to read:
968.075 (1) (f)  XRelativeY means any of the following:
1.  A spouse or former spouse.
2.  A parent or stepparent.
3.  A legal guardian.
4.  A person with whom the adult person has a child in common.
5.  A person with whom the adult person is cohabiting or has cohabited as a 
spouse, a parent, or a legal guardian.
6.  A person who is similarly situated to the adult person as a spouse, a parent, 
or a legal guardian.
7.  An adult who is residing or has resided with the adult person if subd. 1., 2., 
3., 4., 5., or 6. does not apply.
SECTION  3245 .  971.17 (1g) of the statutes is amended to read:
971.17 (1g)  N OTICE  OF RESTRICTION  ON FIREARM  POSSESSION .  If the 
defendant under sub. (1) is found not guilty of a felony, or of a violation under s. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1813 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3245
175.33 (2), by reason of mental disease or defect, the court shall inform the 
defendant of the requirements and penalties under s. 941.29.
SECTION  3246 .  971.365 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
971.365 (1) (a)  In any case under s. 961.41 (1) (em), 1999 stats., or s. 961.41 (1) 
(cm), (d), (dm), (e), (f), or (g) or (h) involving more than one violation, all violations 
may be prosecuted as a single crime if the violations were pursuant to a single 
intent and design.
SECTION  3247 .  971.365 (1) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
971.365 (1) (b)  In any case under s. 961.41 (1m) (em), 1999 stats., or s. 961.41 
(1m) (cm), (d), (dm), (e), (f), or (g) or (h) involving more than one violation, all 
violations may be prosecuted as a single crime if the violations were pursuant to a 
single intent and design.
SECTION  3248 .  971.365 (1) (c) of the statutes is amended to read:
971.365 (1) (c)  In any case under s. 961.41 (3g) (a) 2., 1999 stats., or s. 961.41 
(3g) (dm), 1999 stats., or s. 961.41 (3g) (am), (c), (d), (e), or (g) involving more than 
one violation, all violations may be prosecuted as a single crime if the violations 
were pursuant to a single intent and design.
SECTION  3249 .  971.365 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
971.365 (2)  An acquittal or conviction under sub. (1) does not bar a 
subsequent prosecution for any acts in violation of s. 961.41 (1) (em), 1999 stats., s. 
961.41 (1m) (em), 1999 stats., s. 961.41 (3g) (a) 2., 1999 stats., or s. 961.41 (3g) (dm), 
1999 stats., or s. 961.41 (1) (cm), (d), (dm), (e), (f), or (g), or (h), (1m) (cm), (d), (dm), 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1814 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3249
(e), (f), or (g), or (h) or (3g) (am), (c), (d), (e), or (g) on which no evidence was received 
at the trial on the original charge.
SECTION  3250 .  973.01 (3g) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3251 .  973.01 (8) (ag) of the statutes is repealed.
SECTION  3252 .  973.015 (1b) of the statutes is created to read:
973.015 (1b)  In this section, XrecordY means a criminal case file.
SECTION  3253 .  973.015 (1m) (a) 1. of the statutes is renumbered 973.015 (1m) 
(a) 1. (intro.) and amended to read:
973.015 (1m)  (a) 1. (intro.)  Subject to subd. 2. and except as provided in subd. 
3., when a person is under the age of 25 at the time of the commission of an offense 
for which the person has been found guilty in a court for violation of a law for which 
the maximum period of imprisonment is 6 years or less, the, a court may order at 
the time of sentencing after a conviction that the record a criminal case be 
expunged upon successful completion of the sentence if the court determines the 
person will benefit and society will not be harmed by this disposition. by one of the 
following methods:
(d)  This subsection does not apply to information maintained by the 
department of transportation regarding a conviction that is required to be included 
in a record kept under s. 343.23 (2) (a).
SECTION  3254 .  973.015 (1m) (a) 1. a. and b. of the statutes are created to read:
973.015 (1m)  (a) 1. a.  Except as provided in subd. 3., the court may order at 
the time of sentencing that the record be expunged upon successful completion of 
the sentence if the court determines that the person has not previously had a record 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1815 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3254
expunged under this section and that the person will benefit and society will not be 
harmed by this disposition.
b.  If at least one year has passed since the person successfully completed his 
or her sentence, the person may file a petition in the county of conviction requesting 
that the record be expunged.  Upon receipt of the petition, the court shall review the 
petition to determine if the person is ineligible to petition for expungement because 
subd. 3. or 4. applies, less than one year has passed since the person successfully 
completed his or her sentence, there are criminal charges pending against the 
person, the person has previously had a record expunged under this section, or the 
person has exceeded the maximum number of petitions allowed under this subd. 1. 
b.  If the court determines the person is eligible to petition for expungement, the 
court shall forward the petition to the district attorney.  If the district attorney 
requests a hearing within 90 days after the court forwards the petition, the court 
shall schedule a hearing to review the petition.  If the district attorney waives the 
hearing or at least 90 days have passed since the court forwarded the petition, the 
court may review the petition with or without a hearing.  If a hearing is scheduled, 
then if practicable, the sentencing judge shall be the judge to review the petition.  
The court may order that the record be expunged if the court determines the person 
will benefit and society will not be harmed by this disposition.  If the court does not 
order the record to be expunged under this subd. 1. b., the person may file a 2nd 
petition under this subd. 1. b. only if at least 2 years have passed since he or she 
filed the first petition.  No person may file more than 2 petitions per record under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1816 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3254
this subd. 1. b.  For a 2nd petition regarding the same record, the person shall pay to 
the clerk of circuit court a $100 fee to be retained for the use of the county.
SECTION  3255 .  973.015 (1m) (a) 3. a. of the statutes is amended to read:
973.015 (1m)  (a) 3. a.  A Class H felony, if the person has, in his or her lifetime, 
been convicted of a prior felony offense, or if the felony is a violent offense, as 
defined in s. 301.048 (2) (bm), or is a violation of s. 940.32, 948.03 (2), (3), or (5) (a) 
1., 2., 3., or 4., or 948.095.
SECTION  3256 .  973.015 (1m) (a) 3. c., cg., cr. and d. and 4. of the statutes are 
created to read:
973.015 (1m)  (a) 3. c.  A crime for which the maximum period of imprisonment 
is more than 6 years.
cg.  A violation of s. 940.32 or 943.14 or, if the court noted in the record that the 
property damaged was a business, a violation of s. 943.01.
cr.  A violation of a temporary restraining order or injunction issued under s. 
813.12 (3) or (4).
d.  A violation of chs. 341 to 348.
4.  The court may order at the time of sentencing that the record is ineligible 
for expungement.
SECTION  3257 .  973.015 (1m) (b) of the statutes is amended to read:
973.015 (1m)  (b)   A  For purposes of par. (a), a person has successfully 
completed the sentence if the person has completed all periods of incarceration, 
parole, or extended supervision to which he or she was sentenced; the person has 
paid all fines, costs, fees, surcharges, and restitution assessed and has completed 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1817 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3257
any court-ordered community service; the person has not been convicted of a 
subsequent offense crime; and, if on probation was imposed, the probation has not 
been revoked and the probationer has satisfied the conditions of probation.  Upon 
successful completion of the a sentence involving incarceration or probation, the 
detaining or probationary authority shall issue and forward to the court of record a 
certificate of discharge which shall be forwarded to the court of record and which 
shall have the effect of expunging the record that indicates whether the person 
successfully completed his or her sentence.  If the court has ordered the record 
expunged under par. (a) 1. a. or 2. and the person has successfully completed the 
sentence, the person [s record shall be expunged as ordered.  If the person has been 
imprisoned incarcerated, the detaining authority shall also forward a copy of the 
certificate of discharge to the department.
SECTION  3258 .  973.015 (1m) (c) of the statutes is created to read:
973.015 (1m)  (c)  Upon receipt of a petition under par. (a) 1. b., the district 
attorney shall make a reasonable attempt to notify the victim, as defined in s. 
950.02 (4), of the petition.  In the notice, the district attorney shall inform the victim 
that he or she may waive the hearing requirement and that, if waived, the court 
may review the petition without a hearing.  The district attorney shall inform the 
victim of the manner in which he or she may provide written statements concerning 
the petition and, if the victim does not waive the hearing requirement, that he or 
she may appear at the hearing.  If the victim waives the hearing requirement, the 
district attorney may inform the court that there is no objection to waiving the 
hearing requirement.  Notwithstanding the confidentiality of victim address 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1818 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3258
information obtained under s. 302.113 (9g) (g) 3., a district attorney who is required 
to make a reasonable attempt to notify a victim under this paragraph may obtain 
from the clerk of the circuit court the victim address information that the victim 
provided to the clerk under s. 302.113 (9g) (g) 3.
SECTION  3259 .  973.015 (4) of the statutes is created to read:
973.015 (4)  A record of a crime expunged under this section is not considered 
a conviction for employment purposes or for purposes of the issuance of a license, as 
defined in s. 111.32 (10), by a licensing agency, as defined in s. 111.32 (11).  This 
subsection does not apply to the extent that its application conflicts with federal 
law.
SECTION  3260 .  973.016 of the statutes is created to read:
973.016  Special disposition for marijuana-related crimes.  (1)  
RESENTENCING  PERSONS  SERVING  A SENTENCE  OR PROBATION .  (a)  A person serving 
a sentence or on probation may request resentencing or dismissal as provided under 
par. (b) if all of the following apply:
1.  The sentence or probation period was imposed for a violation of s. 961.41 (1) 
(h), 2023 stats., s. 961.41 (1m) (h), 2023 stats., or s. 961.41 (3g) (e), 2023 stats.
2.  One of the following applies:
a.  The person would not have been guilty of a crime had the violation occurred 
on or after the effective date of this subd. 2. a. .... [LRB inserts date].
b.  The person would have been guilty of a lesser crime had the violation 
occurred on or after the effective date of this subd. 2. b. .... [LRB inserts date].1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1819 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3260
(b) 1.  A person to whom par. (a) applies shall file a petition with the 
sentencing court to request resentencing, adjustment of probation, or dismissal.
2.  If the court receiving a petition under subd. 1. determines that par. (a) 
applies, the court shall schedule a hearing to consider the petition.  At the hearing, 
if the court determines that par. (a) 2. b. applies, the court shall resentence the 
person or adjust the probation and change the record to reflect the lesser crime, 
and, if the court determines that par. (a) 2. a. applies, the court shall dismiss the 
conviction and expunge the record.  Before resentencing, adjusting probation, or 
dismissing a conviction under this subdivision, the court shall determine that the 
action does not present an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety.
3.  If the court resentences the person or adjusts probation, the person shall 
receive credit for time or probation served for the relevant offense.
(2)  REDESIGNATING  OFFENSE  FOR PERSONS  WHO COMPLETED  A SENTENCE  OR 
PROBATION .  (a)  A person who has completed their sentence or period of probation 
may request under par. (b) expungement of the conviction because the conviction is 
legally invalid or redesignation to a lesser crime if all of the following apply:
1.  The sentence or probation period was imposed for a violation of s. 961.41 (1) 
(h), 2023 stats., s. 961.41 (1m) (h), 2023 stats., or s. 961.41 (3g) (e), 2023 stats.
2.  One of the following applies:
a.  The person would not have been guilty of a crime had the violation occurred 
on or after the effective date of this subd. 2. a. .... [LRB inserts date].
b.  The person would have been guilty of a lesser crime had the violation 
occurred on or after the effective date of this subd. 2. b. .... [LRB inserts date].1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1820 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3260
(b) 1.  A person to whom par. (a) applies shall file a petition with the 
sentencing court to request expungement or redesignation.
2.  If the court receiving a petition under subd. 1. determines that par. (a) 
applies, the court shall schedule a hearing to consider the petition.  At the hearing, 
if the court determines that par. (a) 2. b. applies, the court shall redesignate the 
crime to a lesser crime and change the record to reflect the lesser crime, and, if the 
court determines that par. (a) 2. a. applies, the court shall expunge the conviction.  
Before redesignating or expunging under this subdivision, the court shall 
determine that the action does not present an unreasonable risk of danger to public 
safety.
(3)  EFFECT  OF RESENTENCING , DISMISSAL , REDESIGNATION , OR EXPUNGEMENT .  
If the court changes or expunges a record under this section, a conviction that was 
changed or expunged is not considered a conviction for any purpose under state or 
federal law, including for purposes of s. 941.29 or 18 USC 921.
SECTION  3261 .  973.043 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
973.043 (3)  All moneys collected from drug offender diversion surcharges 
shall be credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.455 (2) (kv) 20.625 (1) 
(kv) and used for the purpose of making grants payments to counties under that 
comply with the criteria specified in s. 165.95 (3).
SECTION  3262 .  973.0452 of the statutes is created to read:
973.0452   Crime victim services surcharge.   (1)  If a court imposes a 
sentence, places a person on probation, or imposes a forfeiture for a violation of a 
law or an ordinance, the court shall impose a crime victim services surcharge.  A 
surcharge imposed under this subsection may not be waived, reduced, or forgiven 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1821 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3262
for any reason.  The amount of the surcharge is the combined amount of the 
following:
(a)  Forty percent of the fine or forfeiture imposed or $40, whichever is greater, 
for each offense.
(b)  For each misdemeanor or felony count for which a conviction occurred, $50.
(2) (a)  In this subsection, Xcivil offense Y means an offense punishable by a 
forfeiture.
(b)  If the court finds a person committed a civil offense on or after the effective 
date of this paragraph .... [LRB inserts date], in addition to any forfeiture the court 
imposes, the court shall impose a crime victim services surcharge that is equal to 
the amounts under sub. (1) (a) and (b) if all of the following apply:
1.  The person is charged with one or more misdemeanors or felonies in a 
complaint.
2.  As a result of the complaint being amended, the person is charged with a 
civil offense in lieu of one of those misdemeanors or felonies.
(3)  Notwithstanding sub. (1), the court may not impose the surcharge under 
sub. (1) for a violation of state laws or municipal or county ordinances involving 
nonmoving traffic violations.
(4) (a)  If a court of record imposes the surcharge under sub. (1), the clerk of 
the court shall determine the amount that is due and collect and transmit the 
amount to the county treasurer as provided in s. 59.40 (2) (m).  The county 
treasurer shall make payment to the secretary of administration as provided in s. 
59.25 (3) (f) 2.
(b)  If a municipal court imposes the surcharge under sub. (1), the court shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1822 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3262
determine the amount due and collect and transmit the amount to the treasurer of 
the county, city, town, or village, and the treasurer shall make payment to the 
secretary of administration as provided in s. 66.0114 (1) (bm).
(5)  If an inmate in a state prison or a person sentenced to a state prison has 
not paid the surcharge under sub. (1), the department shall assess and collect the 
amount owed from the inmate [s wages or other moneys.  Any amount collected 
under this subsection shall be transmitted to the secretary of administration.
SECTION  3263 .  973.123 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:
973.123 (1)  In this section, Xviolent felony Y means any felony under s. 943.23 
(1m), 1999 stats., s. 943.23 (1r), 1999 stats., or s. 943.23 (1g), 2021 stats., or s. 
940.01, 940.02, 940.03, 940.05, 940.06, 940.08, 940.09, 940.10, 940.19, 940.195, 
940.198, 940.20, 940.201, 940.203, 940.204, 940.21, 940.225, 940.23, 940.235, 
940.285 (2), 940.29, 940.295 (3), 940.30, 940.302, 940.305, 940.31, 940.43 (1) to (3), 
940.45 (1) to (3), 941.20, 941.26, 941.28, 941.285, 941.29 (1m), 941.292, 941.293, 
941.30, 941.327 (2) (b) 3. or 4., 943.02, 943.04, 943.06, 943.10 (2), 943.231 (1), 
943.32, 943.87, 946.43, 948.02 (1) or (2), 948.025, 948.03, 948.04, 948.05, 948.051, 
948.06, 948.07, 948.08, 948.085, or 948.30.
SECTION  3264 .  973.15 (5) of the statutes is amended to read:
973.15 (5)  A convicted offender who is made available to another jurisdiction 
under ch. 976 or in any other lawful manner shall be credited with service of his or 
her Wisconsin sentence or commitment under the terms of s. ss. 973.155 and 
973.156 for the duration of custody in the other jurisdiction.
SECTION  3265 .  973.155 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
973.155 (1m)   A convicted offender shall be given credit toward the service of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1823 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3265
his or her sentence for all days spent in custody as part of a substance abuse 
treatment program that meets the requirements of s. 165.95 (3), as determined by 
the department of justice under s. 165.95 (9) and (10), for any offense arising out of 
the course of conduct that led to the person [s placement in that program.
SECTION  3266 .  973.156 of the statutes is created to read:
973.156   Earned compliance credit.   (1)  In this section, Xqualifying 
offenseY means a crime other than a violation of ch. 940 or s. 948.02, 948.025, 
948.03, 948.05, 948.051, 948.055, 948.06, 948.07, 948.075, 948.08, 948.085, or 
948.095.
(2)  Upon the revocation of extended supervision under s. 302.113 (9) or parole 
under s. 302.11 (7), a person shall be given earned compliance credit toward the 
service of his or her sentence for a qualifying offense for each day that the person 
spent on extended supervision or parole without violating a condition or rule of 
extended supervision or parole prior to the violation that resulted in the revocation.
(3)  Subsection (2) does not apply to a person who is required to register under 
s. 301.45.
(4)  If a person is serving more than one sentence, earned compliance credit 
under sub. (2) is earned only for the time spent on extended supervision or parole 
for qualifying offenses.
(5)  The amount of the earned compliance credit under sub. (2) shall be 
calculated and applied by the appropriate reviewing authority under s. 302.11 (7) 
(am) or 302.113 (9) (am) 1.
SECTION  3267 .  973.176 (1) of the statutes is amended to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1824 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3267
973.176 (1)  FIREARM  POSSESSION .  Whenever a court imposes a sentence or 
places a defendant on probation regarding a felony conviction or regarding a 
conviction for a misdemeanor under s. 175.33 (2), the court shall inform the 
defendant of the requirements and penalties applicable to him or her under s. 
941.29 (1m) or (4m).
SECTION  3268 .  973.25 (1) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
973.25 (1) (a)  XCertificate of qualification for employment Y means a 
certificate issued by the council on offender employment that provides an offender 
with relief from a collateral sanction, except that it does not provide relief from s. 
48.685 (5m), 50.065 (4m), or 111.335 (3) (a) (ar), (b), (c), or (e) or (4) (h) or (i).
SECTION  3269 .  977.08 (4m) (e) of the statutes is amended to read:
977.08 (4m)  (e)  Unless otherwise provided by a rule promulgated under s. 
977.02 (7r) or by a contract authorized under sub. (3) (f), for cases assigned on or 
after July 1, 2023, private local attorneys shall be paid $100 per hour for time spent 
related to a case, excluding travel, and for cases assigned on or after July 1, 2025, 
private local attorneys shall be paid $125 per hour for time spent related to a case, 
excluding travel, if any crime charged is a violent crime, as defined in s. 165.84 (7) 
(ab).  For cases assigned on or after July 1, 2023, private local attorneys shall be 
paid $50 per hour for time spent in travel related to a case if any portion of the trip 
is outside the county in which the attorney [s principal office is located or if the trip 
requires traveling a distance of more than 30 miles, one way, from the attorney [s 
principal office.
SECTION  3270 .  978.03 (1m) of the statutes is amended to read:
978.03 (1m)   The district attorney of any prosecutorial unit having a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1825 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3270
population of 200,000 or more but less than 750,000 may appoint  3  4 deputy 
district attorneys and such assistant district attorneys as may be requested by the 
department of administration and authorized in accordance with s. 16.505.  The 
district attorney shall rank the deputy district attorneys for purposes of carrying 
out duties under this section.  The deputies, according to rank, may perform any 
duty of the district attorney, under the district attorney [s direction.  In the absence 
or disability of the district attorney, the deputies, according to rank, may perform 
any act required by law to be performed by the district attorney.  Any such deputy 
must have practiced law in this state for at least 2 years prior to appointment under 
this section.
SECTION  3271 .  978.045 (2) of the statutes is amended to read:
978.045 (2)  If the department of administration approves the appointment of 
a special prosecutor under sub. (1r), the court shall fix the amount of compensation 
for the attorney appointed according to the rates specified in s. 977.08 (4m) (b) for 
the date on which the approval was made.  The department of administration shall 
pay the compensation ordered by the court from the appropriation under s. 20.475 
(1) (d).  The court, district attorney, and the special prosecutor shall provide any 
information regarding a payment of compensation that the department requests.  
Any payment under this subsection earns interest on the balance due from the 
121st day after receipt of a properly completed invoice or receipt and acceptance of 
the property or service under the order or contract, whichever is later, at the rate 
specified in s. 71.82 (1) (a) compounded monthly.
SECTION  3272 .  978.05 (6) (a) of the statutes is amended to read:
978.05 (6) (a)  Institute, commence, or appear in all civil actions or special 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1826 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3272
proceedings under and perform the duties set forth for the district attorney under 
ch. 980 and ss. 17.14, 30.03 (2), 48.09 (5), 59.55 (1), 59.64 (1), 89.08, 103.50 (8), 
103.92 (4), 109.09, 343.305 (9) (a), 806.05, 938.09, 938.18, 938.355 (6) (b) and (6g) 
(a), 946.86, 946.87, 961.55 (5), 971.14 and 973.075 to 973.077, perform any duties in 
connection with court proceedings in a court assigned to exercise jurisdiction under 
chs. 48 and 938 as the judge may request and perform all appropriate duties and 
appear if the district attorney is designated in specific statutes, including matters 
within chs. 782, 976 and 979 and ss. 51.81 to 51.85.  Nothing in this paragraph 
limits the authority of the county board to designate, under s. 48.09 (5), that the 
corporation counsel provide representation as specified in s. 48.09 (5) or to 
designate, under s. 48.09 (6) or 938.09 (6), the district attorney as an appropriate 
person to represent the interests of the public under s. 48.14 or 938.14.
SECTION  3273 .  990.01 (3) of the statutes is amended to read:
990.01 (3)  ADULT .  XAdultY means a person who has attained the age of 18 
years, except that for purposes of investigating or prosecuting a person who is 
alleged to have violated any state or federal criminal law or any civil law or 
municipal ordinance, XadultY means a person who has attained the age of 17 years.
SECTION  3274 .  990.01 (20) of the statutes is amended to read:
990.01 (20)  MINOR .  XMinorY means a person who has not attained the age of 
18 years, except that for purposes of investigating or prosecuting a person who is 
alleged to have violated a state or federal criminal law or any civil law or municipal 
ordinance, XminorY does not include a person who has attained the age of 17 years.
SECTION  3275 .  990.01 (22h) of the statutes is created to read:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1827 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3275
990.01 (22h)   NATURAL  PARENT .  XNatural parent Y means a parent of a child 
who is not an adoptive parent, whether the parent is biologically related to the child 
or not.
SECTION  3276 .  990.01 (39) of the statutes is created to read:
990.01 (39)  SPOUSES .  XSpousesY means 2 individuals of the same sex or 
different sexes who are legally married to each other.
SECTION  3277 .  990.01 (40m) of the statutes is created to read:
990.01 (40m)   STEPPARENT .  XStepparent Y means a person who is the spouse of 
a child[s parent and who is not also a parent of the child.
SECTION  3278 .  995.70 of the statutes is created to read:
995.70  Eligibility of certain individuals who are not U.S. citizens to 
receive professional licenses.   (1)  In this section, Xprofessional license Y means 
a license, registration, certification, or other approval to perform specific work 
tasks, whether issued by the state or a local governmental entity.
(2)  Pursuant to 8 USC 1621 (d), an individual who is not a U.S. citizen is not 
ineligible to receive any professional license issued in this state because of the 
individual [s citizenship status.
(3)  Nothing in this section affects any requirement or qualification for an 
individual to obtain a professional license that is not related to the citizenship 
status of the individual.
SECTION  3279 .  2017 Wisconsin Act 370, section 44 (2) and (3) are repealed.
SECTION  3280 .  2017 Wisconsin Act 370, section 44 (5) is repealed.
SECTION  3281 .  2023 Wisconsin Act 20, sections 3, 9 and 29 (1) are repealed.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1828 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3282
SECTION  3282 .  DCF 55.02 (5g) (b) 2. of the administrative code is repealed.
SECTION  3283 .  DCF 56.23 (1) (c) of the administrative code is repealed.
SECTION  3284 .  DCF 58.08 (9) (c) and (d) of the administrative code are 
created to read:
DCF 58.08 (9) (c)  Exceptional payments.   A kinship care agency may issue to 
a relative caregiver who is receiving kinship care payments or long-term kinship 
care payments an exceptional payment to enable siblings or a minor parent and 
minor children to reside together, subject to a maximum payment amount 
determined by the department.
(d)  Initial clothing allowance.  A kinship care agency may pay an initial 
clothing allowance to a relative caregiver when the relative caregiver is initially 
approved by the kinship care agency.  The amount of the initial clothing allowance 
shall be the actual cost of the clothing not to exceed a maximum determined by the 
department.
SECTION  3285 .  DHS 107.07 (4) (k) 2. of the administrative code is repealed.
SECTION  9101 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Administration.
(1)  C YBERSECURITY  INSURANCE  PROGRAM .  The department of administration 
shall plan and prepare to have a cybersecurity insurance program for executive 
branch state agencies by the 2027-29 fiscal biennium.
(2)  A LTERNATIVES  TO PROSECUTION  AND INCARCERATION  GRANT  PROGRAM .  
Notwithstanding s. 16.42 (1) (e), in submitting information under s. 16.42 for 
purposes of the 2027 biennial budget act, the department of administration shall 
submit information concerning the appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (cb) as though 
the total amount appropriated under s. 20.505 (1) (cb) for the 2026-27 fiscal year 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1829 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9101
was $142,500 more than the total amount that was actually appropriated under s. 
20.505 (1) (cb) for the 2026-27 fiscal year.
(3)  G RANTS  FOR M ILWAUKEE  COUNTY  H OUSING  FIRST.  From the 
appropriation under s. 20.505 (7) (fe), the department of administration shall award 
grants of $100,000 in fiscal year 2025-26 and $100,000 in fiscal year 2026-27 to the 
Milwaukee County department of health and human services to support 
Milwaukee County [s Housing First initiative.
(4)  P AID FAMILY  AND MEDICAL  LEAVE .  If the paid family and medical leave 
program under s. 230.12 (9m) is approved by the joint committee on employment 
relations, it shall go into effect on January 1, 2027.
(5)  T ASK FORCE  ON MISSING  AND MURDERED  AFRICAN  AMERICAN  WOMEN  AND 
GIRLS .
(a)  Definition.   In this subsection, Xnongovernmental organization Y means a 
nonprofit, nongovernmental organization that provides legal, social, or other 
community services.
(b)  Membership.   There is created a task force on missing and murdered 
African American women and girls.  The task force shall consist of the following 
members, who are knowledgeable in crime victims rights or violence protection, 
and who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the governor unless 
otherwise specified:
1.  Two members of the senate, one appointed by the majority leader and one 
appointed by the minority leader.
2.  Two members of the assembly, one appointed by the speaker of the 
assembly and one appointed by the minority leader.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1830 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9101
3.  Two representatives from among the following:
a.  The Wisconsin Chiefs of Police Association.
b.  The Badger State Sheriffs [ Association.
c.  The division of criminal investigation within the department of justice.
4.  One or more representatives from among the following:
a.  The Wisconsin District Attorneys Association.
b.  A U.S. Attorney [s office in this state.
c.  A judge or attorney working in juvenile court.
5.  A county coroner or representative from a statewide coroner [s association or 
a representative of the department of health services.
6.  Three or more representatives from among the following:
a.  A statewide or local organization that provides legal services to African 
American women and girls.
b.  A statewide or local organization that provides advocacy or counseling for 
African American women and girls who have been victims of violence.
c.  A statewide or local organization that provides nonlegal services to African 
American women and girls.
d.  The Wisconsin Coalition Against Sexual Assault.
e.  End Domestic Abuse Wisconsin.
f.  An African American woman who is a survivor of gender violence.
(c)  Operation.
1.  The task force shall elect a chair and vice-chair from among the members of 
the task force and may elect other officers as necessary.  The task force shall 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1831 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9101
convene within 30 days after it is established and shall meet at least quarterly 
thereafter, or upon the call of its chair, and may hold meetings throughout the state.  
The task force shall meet sufficiently to accomplish the duties identified in par. (d).
2.  The department of administration shall provide administrative support 
services to the task force.  The task force may call upon any state agency or officer to 
assist the task force, and those agencies or officers shall cooperate with the task 
force to the fullest extent possible.
3.  The department of administration shall reimburse members of the task 
force for their actual and necessary expenses incurred in carrying out their 
functions.
(d)  Duties.
1.  The task force shall examine all of the following topics:
a.  The systemic causes behind violence that African American women and 
girls experience, including patterns and underlying factors that explain why 
disproportionately high levels of violence occur against African American women 
and girls, including underlying historical, generational, social, economic, 
institutional, and cultural factors that may contribute to the violence.
b.  Appropriate methods for tracking and collecting data on violence against 
African American women and girls, including data on missing and murdered 
African American women and girls.
c.  Policies and institutions such as policing, child welfare, coroner practices, 
and other governmental practices that impact violence against African American 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1832 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9101
women and girls and the investigation and prosecution of crimes of gender violence 
against African American people.
d.  Measures necessary to address and reduce violence against African 
American women and girls.
e.  Measures to help victims, victims [ families, and victims [ communities 
prevent and heal from violence that occurs against African American women and 
girls.
2.  The task force shall, by December 31, 2025, and December 31, 2026, submit 
to the governor a report that includes all of the following:
a.  Proposed institutional policies and practices that are effective in reducing 
gender violence and increasing the safety of African American women and girls.
b.  Recommendations to eliminate violence against African American women 
and girls.
c.  Recommendations to help victims and communities heal from gender 
violence and violence against African American women and girls.
3.  In accomplishing the tasks in subds. 1. and 2., the task force shall seek out 
and enlist the cooperation and assistance of nongovernmental organizations, 
community and advocacy organizations working with the African American 
community, and academic researchers and experts, specifically those specializing in 
violence against African American women and girls, representing diverse 
communities disproportionately affected by violence against women and girls, or 
focusing on issues related to gender violence and violence against African American 
women and girls.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1833 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9101
(6)  D EPARTMENT  OF CORRECTIONS  GREEN  BAY CORRECTIONAL  INSTITUTION  
CLASSIFIED  EMPLOYEES .  The director of the bureau of merit recruitment and 
selection in the division of personnel management in the department of 
administration is authorized to waive competitive hiring procedures required under 
ch. 230 for an employee in the classified service at the Green Bay Correctional 
Institution during the period in which the facility is decommissioned so that the 
employee may be hired into a different position within the department of 
corrections if the individual is qualified to perform the duties of the position and the 
position meets either of the following requirements:
(a)  The position is assigned to a class having the same pay range as the 
position in which the individual was employed at the Green Bay Correctional 
Institution.
(b)  The position is assigned to a class having a lower pay range than the 
position in which the individual was employed at the Green Bay Correctional 
Institution.
(7)  P OSITION  FUNDING  AND INCUMBENT  STAFF .  On January 1, 2027, the 
funding source for 3.0 FTE FED positions in the department of administration 
changes from the appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (mb) to the general purpose 
revenue appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (a), and the incumbent employees holding 
the positions on that date retain their positions.  On January 1, 2027, the funding 
source for 1.0 FTE FED position in the department of administration changes from 
the appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (mb) to the program revenue appropriation 
under s. 20.505 (1) (ka), and the incumbent employee holding the position on that 
date retains their position.  On January 1, 2027, the funding source for 20.0 FTE 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1834 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9101
FED positions in the department of administration changes from the appropriation 
under s. 20.505 (1) (mb) to the program revenue appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) 
(kz), and the incumbent employees holding the positions on that date retain their 
positions.
(8)  P OSITION  FUNDING  AND INCUMBENT  STAFF  TRANSFER .  On January 1, 2027, 
17.5 FTE FED positions in the department of administration, funded from the 
appropriation under s. 20.505 (1) (mb), and the incumbent employees holding those 
positions are transferred to the employment relations commission, and the funding 
for the positions is changed to the GPR appropriation under s. 20.425 (1) (a).  
Employees transferred under this subsection have all the rights and the same 
status under ch. 230 in the employment relations commission that they enjoyed in 
the department of administration immediately before the transfer.  
Notwithstanding s. 230.28 (4), no employee transferred under this subsection who 
has attained permanent status in class is required to serve a probationary period.
SECTION  9102 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Agriculture, Trade and 
Consumer Protection.
(1)  E MERGENCY  RULES  FOR SANDHILL  CRANE  DAMAGE  REIMBURSEMENT  
PROGRAM .  The department of agriculture, trade and consumer protection may use 
the procedure under s. 227.24 to promulgate emergency rules under s. 93.67 (4) for 
the period before the date on which permanent rules under s. 93.67 (4) take effect.  
Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), emergency rules promulgated under this 
subsection remain in effect until the first day of the 25th month beginning after the 
effective date of the emergency rules, the date on which the permanent rules take 
effect, or the effective date of the repeal of the emergency rules, whichever is earlier. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1835 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9102
Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the department of agriculture, trade and 
consumer protection is not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule 
under this subsection as an emergency rule is necessary for the preservation of 
public peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of 
emergency for a rule promulgated under this subsection.
SECTION  9103 . Nonstatutory provisions; Arts Board.
SECTION  9104 . Nonstatutory provisions; Building Commission.
SECTION  9105 . Nonstatutory provisions; Child Abuse and Neglect 
Prevention Board.
SECTION  9106 . Nonstatutory provisions; Children and Families.
(1)  C HILD  CARE  QUALITY  IMPROVEMENT  PROGRAM .  Using the procedure under 
s. 227.24, the department of children and families may promulgate the rules 
required under s. 49.133 (2) as emergency rules.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) 
and (2), emergency rules promulgated under this subsection remain in effect until 
July 1, 2027, or the date on which permanent rules take effect, whichever is sooner.  
Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a), (2) (b), and (3), the department of children and 
families is not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this 
subsection as an emergency rule is necessary for the preservation of the public 
peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of 
emergency for a rule promulgated under this subsection.
(2)  C HILD  CARE  PARTNERSHIP  GRANT  PROGRAM ; EMERGENCY  RULE  MAKING .  
The department of children and families may promulgate emergency rules under s. 
227.24 to implement s. 49.132.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), emergency 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1836 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9106
rules promulgated under this subsection remain in effect until July 1, 2027, or the 
date on which permanent rules take effect, whichever is sooner.  Notwithstanding s. 
227.24 (1) (a), (2) (b), and (3), the department is not required to provide evidence 
that promulgating a rule under this subsection as an emergency rule is necessary 
for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required 
to provide a finding of emergency for a rule promulgated under this subsection.
(3)  B ENEFITS  ELIGIBILITY  SCREENING ; EMERGENCY  RULE -MAKING  AUTHORITY .  
The department of children and families may use the procedure under s. 227.24 to 
promulgate rules under s. 48.49 for the period before the effective date of any 
permanent rules promulgated under s. 48.49, notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c).  
Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the department of children and families is 
not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this subsection as 
an emergency rule is necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, 
safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of emergency for a rule 
promulgated under this subsection.
(4)  F OSTER  CARE  AID-RELATED  CHILD  SUPPORT  ARREARS .  Any balance of court-
ordered child support obligations assigned to this state under s. 48.645 (3), 2023 
stats., is set to $0 and is unenforceable and uncollectable.  Any warrant or lien 
issued prior to July 1, 2026, is vacated if it is based on the alleged failure to pay 
such a balance or the failure to appear to a court hearing set for the purpose of 
enforcing the obligation assigned to the state.
(5)  G RANTS  FOR OUT-OF-SCHOOL  TIME  PROGRAMS ; EMERGENCY  RULE -MAKING  
AUTHORITY .  The department of children and families may use the procedure under 
s. 227.24 to promulgate emergency rules under s. 48.483 for the period before the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1837 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9106
date on which permanent rules under s. 48.483 take effect.  Notwithstanding s. 
227.24 (1) (c) and (2), emergency rules promulgated under this subsection remain in 
effect until July 1, 2027, or the date on which permanent rules take effect, 
whichever is sooner.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the department of 
children and families is not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule 
under this subsection as an emergency rule is necessary for the preservation of the 
public peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of 
emergency for a rule promulgated under this subsection.
(6)  C HILD  SUPPORT  DEBT  REDUCTION ; EMERGENCY  RULE  MAKING .  The 
department of children and families may promulgate emergency rules under s. 
227.24 to implement s. 49.226.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), emergency 
rules promulgated under this subsection remain in effect until July 1, 2027, or the 
date on which permanent rules take effect, whichever is sooner.  Notwithstanding s. 
227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the department is not required to provide evidence that 
promulgating a rule under this subsection as an emergency rule is necessary for the 
preservation of the public peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required to 
provide a finding of emergency for a rule promulgated under this subsection.
(7)  J UVENILE  JUSTICE  REFORM  REVIEW  COMMITTEE .
(a)  There is created in the department of children and families a juvenile 
justice reform review committee with members appointed by the governor.
(b)  The juvenile justice reform review committee shall study and, prior to 
September 15, 2026, provide recommendations to the department of children and 
families and the department of corrections on how to do all of the following:
1.  Increase the minimum age of delinquency.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1838 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9106
2.  Eliminate original adult court jurisdiction over juveniles under s. 938.183.
3.  Modify the waiver procedure for adult court jurisdiction over juveniles and 
incorporate offenses currently subject to original adult court jurisdiction into the 
waiver procedure.
4.  Eliminate the serious juvenile offender program under s. 938.538 and 
create extended juvenile court jurisdiction with a blended juvenile and adult 
sentence structure for certain juvenile offenders.
5.  Prohibit placement of a juvenile in a juvenile detention facility for a status 
offense and limit sanctions and short-term holds in a juvenile detention facility to 
cases where there is a public safety risk.
6.  Sunset long-term post-disposition programs at juvenile detention facilities.
7.  Create a sentence adjustment procedure for youthful offenders.
8.  Conform with the U.S. Constitution the statutes that mandate imposing 
sentences of life imprisonment without parole or extended supervision to minors.
(c)  In submitting information under s. 16.42 (1) for purposes of the 2027-29 
biennial budget bill, the department of children and families and the department of 
corrections shall each include a request to implement the juvenile justice reform 
review committee [s recommendations.
(d)  The juvenile justice reform review committee terminates on September 15, 
2026.
SECTION  9107 . Nonstatutory provisions; Circuit Courts.
(1)  E XTREME  RISK PROTECTION  ORDERS ; INTENT  STATEMENT .  The intent of s. 
813.124 is to implement a state crisis intervention court proceeding in the form of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1839 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9107
an extreme risk protection order program that is eligible for federal grants under 34 
USC 10152 (a) (1) (I) (iv).
(2)  C IRCUIT  COURT  BRANCHES ; BRANCH  9.  The initial election for circuit judge 
for branch 9 of the circuit court for Brown County shall be at the spring election of 
2026 for a term commencing August 1, 2026, and ending July 31, 2032.
(3)  C IRCUIT  COURT  BRANCHES ; BRANCH  10.  The initial election for circuit judge 
for branch 10 of the circuit court for Brown County shall be at the spring election of 
2026 for a term commencing August 1, 2026, and ending July 31, 2032.
SECTION  9108 . Nonstatutory provisions; Corrections.
(1)  E ARNED  RELEASE  PROGRAM  RULES .  The department of corrections shall 
update its administrative rules to implement earned release for completion of a 
vocational readiness training program under s. 302.05 (3), including specification of 
the eligibility criteria for persons sentenced before the effective date of this 
subsection to participate in the program.
(2)  E ARNED  COMPLIANCE  CREDIT .  A person who is serving a sentence for a 
violation other than a crime specified in ch. 940 or s. 948.02, 948.025, 948.03, 
948.05, 948.051, 948.055, 948.06, 948.07, 948.075, 948.08, 948.085, or 948.095 and 
who is in custody upon revocation of extended supervision or parole on the effective 
date of this subsection may petition the department of corrections to be given credit 
under s. 973.156.  Upon proper verification of the facts alleged in the petition, credit 
under s. 973.156 shall be applied retroactively to the person.  If the department of 
corrections is unable to determine whether credit under s. 973.156 should be given, 
or otherwise refuses to award retroactive credit, the person may petition the 
sentencing court for relief.  This subsection applies regardless of the date the person 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1840 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9108
was sentenced.  A person who is required to register under s. 301.45 is not eligible to 
receive credit under this subsection.
SECTION  9109 . Nonstatutory provisions; Court of Appeals.
SECTION  9110 .  Nonstatutory provisions; District Attorneys.
(1)  I NCUMBENT  STAFF .  Individuals in project positions that were funded by 
the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, P.L. 117-2, and funded from the 
appropriation under s. 20.475 (1) (m), and who are employed in offices of district 
attorneys on the day before the effective date of this subsection may be appointed to 
the permanent equivalent of those positions, funded from the appropriation under 
s. 20.475 (1) (d), notwithstanding any provision of ch. 230.
SECTION  9111 . Nonstatutory provisions; Educational Communications 
Board.
SECTION  9112 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Elections Commission.
(1)  G RANTS  TO COUNTIES  AND MUNICIPALITIES  FOR THE PURCHASE  OF ELECTION  
SUPPLIES  AND EQUIPMENT .  In the 2025-26 fiscal year, from the appropriation under 
s. 20.510 (1) (bp), the elections commission shall award grants to cities, villages, 
towns, and counties in this state for the purchase of election supplies and 
equipment, including electronic poll books.  The total amount of grants awarded 
under this subsection may not exceed $400,000.
(2)  I NITIAL  SHARING  OF REGISTRATION  INFORMATION .  Notwithstanding ss. 
85.61 (1), 110.09 (2), 342.06 (1) (eg), and 343.14 (2j), the department of 
transportation shall enter into and begin transferring information under a revised 
agreement with the elections commission administrator pursuant to s. 85.61 (1) no 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1841 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9112
later than the first day of the 9th month beginning after the effective date of this 
subsection.
(3)  R EPORT  ON VOTER  REGISTRATION  INFORMATION  INTEGRATION .  No later 
than July 1, 2027, the elections commission shall report to the appropriate standing 
committees of the legislature, in the manner specified in s. 13.172 (3), and to the 
governor its progress in initially implementing a system to ensure the complete and 
continuous registration of all eligible electors in this state, specifically including the 
operability and utility of information integration with the department of 
transportation and the feasibility and desirability of integrating public information 
maintained by other state agencies and by technical colleges with the commission [s 
registration information to enhance the completeness and accuracy of the 
information.  At a minimum, the report shall contain an assessment of the 
feasibility and desirability of the integration of registration information with 
information maintained by the departments of health services, children and 
families, workforce development, revenue, safety and professional services, and 
natural resources; the University of Wisconsin System; and the technical college 
system board, as well as the technical colleges within each technical college district.
SECTION  9113 . Nonstatutory provisions; Employee Trust Funds.
(1)  I NCUMBENT  INTERNAL  AUDITOR .  The individual holding the position of 
internal auditor in the department of employee trust funds on the day before the 
effective date of this subsection shall continue to serve in that position until an 
internal auditor is appointed under s. 15.165 (5).
(2)  I NCUMBENT  STAFF .  Individuals holding positions as staff internal auditors 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1842 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9113
in the department of employee trust funds on the day before the effective date of this 
subsection shall continue to serve in those positions until staff are appointed under 
s. 40.03 (1) (dm).
(3)  E LECTION  TO CONTINUE  ANNUITY  SUSPENSION .  No later than 60 days after 
the effective date of this subsection, if an individual who is employed by a covered 
employer under the Wisconsin Retirement System has his or her annuity 
suspended under s. 40.26 (1m), 2023 stats., on the effective date of this subsection 
and wants to continue the suspension, the individual shall notify the department of 
employee trust funds on a form provided by the department.  An election to 
continue the suspension is irrevocable.
SECTION  9114 . Nonstatutory provisions; Employment Relations 
Commission.
SECTION  9115 . Nonstatutory provisions; Ethics Commission.
SECTION  9116 . Nonstatutory provisions; Financial Institutions.
SECTION  9117 . Nonstatutory provisions; Governor.
SECTION  9118 . Nonstatutory provisions; Health and Educational 
Facilities Authority.
SECTION  9119 . Nonstatutory provisions; Health Services.
(1)  C HILDLESS  ADULTS  DEMONSTRATION  PROJECT .  The department of health 
services shall submit any necessary request to the federal department of health and 
human services for a state plan amendment or waiver of federal Medicaid law or to 
modify or withdraw from any waiver of federal Medicaid law relating to the 
childless adults demonstration project under s. 49.45 (23), 2023 stats., to reflect the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1843 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9119
incorporation of recipients of Medical Assistance under the demonstration project 
into the BadgerCare Plus program under s. 49.471 and the termination of the 
demonstration project.  The department of health services may submit a request to 
the federal department of health and human services to modify or withdraw from 
the waiver granted under s. 49.45 (23) (g), 2023 stats.
(2)  R ULES  REGARDING  TRAINING  OF CERTIFIED  PEER  SPECIALISTS .  The 
department of health services may promulgate the rules required under s. 49.45 
(30j) (bm) 4. as emergency rules under s. 227.24.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) 
and (3), the department of health services is not required to provide evidence that 
promulgating a rule under this subsection as an emergency rule is necessary for the 
preservation of the public peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required to 
provide a finding of emergency for a rule promulgated under this subsection.  
Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), emergency rules promulgated under this 
subsection remain in effect until January 1, 2027, or the date the permanent rules 
take effect, whichever is sooner.
(3)  C OMPLEX  PATIENT  PILOT  PROGRAM .
(a)  In this subsection:
1.  XDepartment Y means the department of health services.
2.  XPartnership group Y means one or more hospitals in partnership with one 
or more post-acute facilities.
(b)  The department shall use a competitive grant selection process to select 
partnership groups to be designated as participating sites for a complex patient 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1844 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9119
pilot program under this subsection and, from the appropriation under s. 20.435 (7) 
(d), award grants to the groups selected.
(c)  The department shall solicit feedback regarding the complex patient pilot 
program from representatives of healthcare system organizations, long-term care 
provider organizations, long-term care operator organizations, patient advocate 
groups, insurers, and any other organization determined to be relevant by the 
secretary of health services.
(d)  The department shall require that each partnership group that applies to 
the department to be designated as a site for the complex patient pilot program 
shall address all of the following issues in its application:
1.  The number of complex patient care beds that will be set aside in a post-
acute facility or through implementation of an innovative model of patient care in a 
post-acute facility to which participating hospitals agree, such as dedicated staffing 
for dementia or a behavioral health unit.
2.  Defined goals and measurable outcomes of the partnership group during 
the pilot program and after the pilot program.
3.  The types of complex patients for whom care will be provided, which may 
include patients needing total care for multiple conditions or comorbidities such as 
cardiac and respiratory diseases, obesity, mental health, substance use, or 
dementia.
4.  An operating budget for the proposed site that details how fiscal 
responsibility will be shared among members of the partnership group and includes 
all of the following:1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1845 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9119
a.  Estimated patient revenues from other sources, including the Medical 
Assistance program under subch. IV of ch. 49, and estimated total costs.
b.  A margin to account for reserved beds.
5.  The partnership group [s expertise to successfully implement the proposal, 
which may include a discussion of the following issues:
a.  Documented experience of the partners working together to serve complex 
patients.
b.  The implementation timeline and the plan for post-acute facilities to accept 
admissions and transfer patients within 72 hours of a request submitted by a 
hospital.
c.  The plan for an interdisciplinary team that will staff the unit in the post-
acute facility, including the availability of staff with appropriate expertise that 
includes physicians, nurses, advance practice health professionals, pharmacists, 
physical therapists, occupational therapists, and social workers.
d.  Ability to electronically exchange health information.
e.  Resources to conduct patient intake and discharge planning from the post-
acute facility, including case managers and social workers.
f.  Ability to conduct monthly case management reviews with the 
interdisciplinary team for every complex care patient that cover care plan progress 
and any readmissions to an acute care hospital.
g.  Ability to conduct monthly quality assurance reviews.
h.  Ability of the treatment model to be replicated by other healthcare systems.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1846 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9119
i.  Plans to document decreases in lengths of stay for complex patients in 
hospitals and avoided hospital days.
j.  Documentation of stable finances among partnership group members to 
support the proposal, including matching funds that could be dedicated to the pilot 
program under this subsection.  No applicant may be required to provide matching 
funds or a contribution, but the department may take into consideration the 
availability of matching funds or a contribution in evaluating an application.
k.  Description of anticipated impediments to successful implementation and 
how the partnership group intends to overcome the anticipated impediments.
(e)  In implementing this subsection, the department shall do all of the 
following:
1.  Develop a methodology to evaluate the complex patient pilot program and 
contract with an independent organization to complete the evaluation.  The 
department may pay the fee of the organization selected from the appropriation 
under s. 20.435 (7) (d).
2.  Give additional weight to partnership groups that would ensure geographic 
diversity.
(f)  Upon completion of the evaluation required under par. (e) 1., the 
independent organization contracted by the department to complete the evaluation 
shall provide the evaluation to the department.
(4)  N EWBORN  SCREENING  PROGRAM ; CONDITIONS  APPROVED  AS OF JANUARY  1, 
2025.  For any disorder included in the federal recommended uniform screening 
panel approved by the federal department of health and human services as of 
January 1, 2025, that is not included in the list of disorders under s. DHS 115.04, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1847 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9119
Wis. Adm. Code, on the effective date of this subsection, the department of health 
services shall do all of the following within 18 months of the effective date of this 
subsection:
(a)  Evaluate whether the disorder should be included in the testing required 
under s. 253.13 (1).
(b)  If, in its evaluation, the department of health services determines that the 
disorder should be included in the testing required under s. 253.13 (1), commence 
rule making to add the disorder to the list under s. DHS 115.04, Wis. Adm. Code.
(5)  N EWBORN  SCREENING  PROGRAM ; PENDING  RULE  PROMULGATION .  
Subsection (4) does not apply to any disorder included in the federal recommended 
uniform screening panel that will be added to the list of disorders under s. DHS 
115.04, Wis. Adm. Code, pending promulgation of a rule for which the department 
of health services has commenced the rule-making procedure as of the effective 
date of this subsection.
(6)  N EWBORN  SCREENING  PROGRAM ; TESTING  START  DATE .  The department of 
health services shall ensure that testing for any disorder added by rule to the list 
under s. DHS 115.04, Wis. Adm. Code, in accordance with sub. (4) begins within 6 
months after the date of publication, as defined in s. 227.22 (1), of the rule.
(7)  E MERGENCY  RULES  ON PSYCHIATRIC  RESIDENTIAL  TREATMENT  FACILITIES .  
The department of health services may promulgate emergency rules under s. 
227.24 implementing certification of psychiatric residential treatment facilities 
under s. 51.044, including development of a new provider type and a 
reimbursement model for psychiatric residential treatment facilities under the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1848 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9119
Medical Assistance program under subch. IV of ch. 49.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 
(1) (a) and (3), the department of health services is not required to provide evidence 
that promulgating a rule under this subsection as an emergency rule is necessary 
for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required 
to provide a finding of emergency for a rule promulgated under this subsection.  
Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), emergency rules promulgated under this 
subsection remain in effect until July 1, 2027, or the date on which permanent rules 
take effect, whichever is sooner.
(8)  E LECTROCARDIOGRAM  SCREENING  PILOT  PROGRAM .  The department of 
health services shall develop a pilot program to provide electrocardiogram 
screenings for participants in middle school and high school athletics programs in 
Milwaukee and Waukesha Counties.  From the appropriation under s. 20.435 (1) 
(b), in fiscal year 2026-27, the department shall award $4,067,200 in grants to local 
health departments, as defined under s. 250.01 (4), to implement the pilot program 
under this subsection.  Participation in the pilot program by participants in middle 
school and high school athletics programs shall be optional.
(9)  H EALTH  CARE  PROVIDER  INNOVATION  GRANTS .  From the appropriation 
under s. 20.435 (4) (bm), the department of health services shall award $7,500,000 
in fiscal year 2025-26 as grants to health care providers and long-term care 
providers to implement best practices and innovative solutions to increase worker 
recruitment and retention.
(10)  F ALLS  PREVENTION  FUNDING .  From the appropriation under s. 20.435 (1) 
(b), the department of health services shall award a grant of $450,000 in each of 
fiscal years 2025-26 and 2026-27 to an organization committed to reducing falls 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1849 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9119
among older adults in this state for the purpose of statewide falls prevention 
awareness and initiatives.
SECTION  9120 . Nonstatutory provisions; Higher Educational Aids 
Board.
SECTION  9121 . Nonstatutory provisions; Historical Society.
SECTION  9122 . Nonstatutory provisions; Housing and Economic 
Development Authority.
SECTION  9123 . Nonstatutory provisions; Insurance.
(1)  P RESCRIPTION  DRUG  PURCHASING  ENTITY .  During the 2025-27 fiscal 
biennium, the office of the commissioner of insurance shall conduct a study on the 
viability of creating or implementing a state prescription drug purchasing entity.
(2)  S TAGGERED  TERMS  FOR PRESCRIPTION  DRUG  AFFORDABILITY  REVIEW  BOARD .  
Notwithstanding the length of terms specified for the members of the prescription 
drug affordability review board under s. 15.735 (1) (b) to (e), 2 of the initial 
members shall be appointed for terms expiring on May 1, 2027; 2 of the initial 
members shall be appointed for terms expiring on May 1, 2028; 2 of the initial 
members shall be appointed for terms expiring on May 1, 2029; and 2 of the initial 
members shall be appointed for terms expiring on May 1, 2030.
(3)  P RESCRIPTION  DRUG  IMPORTATION  PROGRAM .  The commissioner of 
insurance shall submit the first report required under s. 601.575 (5) by the next 
January 1 or July 1, whichever is earliest, that is at least 180 days after the date the 
prescription drug importation program is fully operational under s. 601.575 (4).  
The commissioner of insurance shall include in the first 3 reports submitted under 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1850 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9123
s. 601.575 (5) information on the implementation of the audit functions under s. 
601.575 (1) (n).
(4)  P UBLIC  OPTION  HEALTH  INSURANCE  PLAN .  From the appropriation under s. 
20.145 (1) (g), the office of the commissioner of insurance may expend not more than 
$500,000 in fiscal year 2025-26 and not more than $500,000 in fiscal year 2026-27 
for the development of a public option health insurance plan.
(5)  F UNDING  FOR HEALTH  INSURANCE  NAVIGATORS .
(a)  In this subsection:
1.  XCommissioner Y means the commissioner of insurance.
2.  XNavigator Y means an individual navigator licensed under s. 628.92 (1) or a 
navigator entity licensed under s. 628.92 (2).
(b)  From the appropriation under s. 20.145 (1) (g), the commissioner shall 
award $500,000 in fiscal year 2025-26 and shall award $500,000 in fiscal year 2026-
27 to a navigator to prioritize services for the direct care workforce population.
SECTION  9124 . Nonstatutory provisions; Investment Board.
SECTION  9125 . Nonstatutory provisions; Joint Committee on Finance.
SECTION  9126 . Nonstatutory provisions; Judicial Commission.
SECTION  9127 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Justice.
(1)  I NCUMBENT  STAFF .  Individuals in project positions that were funded by 
the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, P.L. 117-2, and funded from the 
appropriation under s. 20.455 (1) (m), who are employed by the department of 
justice on the day before the effective date of this subsection may be appointed to the 
permanent equivalent of those positions, funded from the appropriation under s. 
20.455 (1) (a), notwithstanding any provision of ch. 230.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1851 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9127
(2)  A LTERNATIVES  TO PROSECUTION  AND INCARCERATION  GRANT  PROGRAM .  
Notwithstanding s. 165.95 (7) and (7m), the department of justice may not make 
any grants for the calendar year beginning January 1, 2027.
(3)  A LTERNATIVES  TO INCARCERATION  GRANT  PROGRAM  POSITION  TRANSFERS  TO 
SUPREME  COURT .  On January 1, 2027, 3.0 FTE GPR positions in the department of 
justice, funded from the appropriation under s. 20.455 (2) (a), that administer the 
alternative to incarceration grant program and the incumbent employees holding 
those positions are transferred to the supreme court.  Employees transferred under 
this subsection have all the rights and the same status under ch. 230 under the 
supreme court that they enjoyed in the department of justice immediately before the 
transfer.  Notwithstanding s. 230.28 (4), no employee transferred under this 
subsection who has attained permanent status in class is required to serve a 
probationary period.
SECTION  9128 . Nonstatutory provisions; Legislature.
(1)  J OINT  LEGISLATIVE  COUNCIL  STUDY  ON THE IMPLEMENTATION  OF THE 
MARIJUANA  TAX AND REGULATION .  The joint legislative council shall study the 
implementation of the marijuana tax and regulation provided under subch. IV of 
ch. 139 and identify uses for the revenues generated by the tax.  The joint legislative 
council shall report its findings, conclusions, and recommendations to the joint 
committee on finance no later than 2 years after the effective date of this 
subsection.
(2)  P OPULAR  INITIATIVE  AND REFERENDUM .
(a)  No later than August 1, 2025, both houses of the legislature shall introduce 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1852 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9128
a proposed constitutional amendment by joint resolution, which may not be 
amended, that substantially provides the following:
XResolved by the [assembly/senate] , the [assembly/senate]  concurring, 
That:
SECTION  1.  Section 1 of article IV of the constitution is amended to read:
[Article IV] Section 1.  The legislative power, except for the initiative and 
referendum powers reserved to the people, shall be vested in a senate and assembly.
SECTION  2.  Section 17 (2) of article IV of the constitution is amended to read:
[Article IV] Section 17 (2)  No Except as provided under sub. (6) (c), no law 
shall be enacted except by bill.  No law shall be in force until published.
SECTION  3.  Section 17 (5) of article IV of the constitution is created to read:
[Article IV] Section 17 (5) (a)  The people reserve to themselves the power to 
reject at a referendum any act of the legislature or part of an act as provided in this 
subsection.  The people may petition for a referendum on the passage of an act, one 
or more sections of an act, or one or more items of appropriation in an act.  The 
petition for a referendum shall satisfy all of the following conditions:
1.  Be signed by qualified electors equaling at least 4 percent of the vote cast 
for the office of governor at the last preceding gubernatorial election.
2.  Be filed with the agency administering state elections.
(b)  All signatures for a petition submitted under par. (a) must be made on 
paper.  After verifying the sufficiency of the signatures for a petition, the agency 
administering state elections shall order the submission of the act or each act 
section or each item of appropriation in the petition to the qualified electors of the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1853 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  3
state for their rejection at the next succeeding general election occurring 
subsequent to 120 days after the filing of the petition.
(c)  No act of the legislature or part of an act rejected in a referendum may be 
reenacted during the legislative session in which it was rejected.
SECTION  4.  Section 17 (6) of article IV of the constitution is created to read:
[Article IV] Section 17 (6) (a)  The people reserve to themselves the power of 
initiative to propose laws and amendments to this constitution and to approve or 
reject them at an election independently of the legislature as provided in this 
subsection.  The people may propose an initiative law or constitutional amendment 
by petition for a vote of the people on the passage of the law or ratification of the 
amendment.  The petition shall satisfy all of the following conditions:
1.  If a petition for an initiative law, be signed by qualified electors equaling at 
least 6 percent of the vote cast for the office of governor at the last preceding 
gubernatorial election.
2.  If a petition for an initiative constitutional amendment, be signed by 
qualified electors equaling at least 8 percent of the vote cast for the office of 
governor at the last preceding gubernatorial election.
3.  Include the full text of the proposed law or constitutional amendment 
prepared in proper form, as provided by law.  Upon request by any qualified elector, 
the agency administering state elections shall have the proposed law or 
constitutional amendment drafted in proper form, as provided by law, and made 
available to the public.  The proposed law or amendment shall embrace no more 
than one subject, and that shall be expressed in the title.
4.  Be filed with the agency administering state elections not less than 120 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1854 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  4
days before the election at which the proposed law or constitutional amendment is 
to be voted upon.
(b)  All signatures for a petition submitted under par. (a) must be made on 
paper.  After verifying the sufficiency of the signatures for a petition, the agency 
administering state elections shall order the submission of the initiative law or 
constitutional amendment to the qualified electors of the state for their approval or 
rejection at the next succeeding general election occurring subsequent to 120 days 
after the filing of the petition.
(c)  If approved by a majority of the qualified electors voting at the election, an 
initiative law or constitutional amendment shall go into effect on the 30th day after 
the date the agency administering state elections certifies the election results as 
provided by law, unless a different effective date is specified in the initiative law or 
amendment.  The legislature may not repeal or amend an initiative law or any part 
of an initiative law for the 2 years immediately succeeding its publication and may 
not repeal or amend an initiative law or any part of an initiative law except by a vote 
of two-thirds of all the members elected to each house.
(d)  If rejected by a majority of the qualified electors voting at the election, 
substantially the same initiative law or constitutional amendment, as determined 
by the agency administering state elections, may not be submitted again to the 
qualified electors under par. (b) until a general election occurring at least 5 years 
after the general election at which the initiative law or constitutional amendment 
was rejected.
SECTION  5.  Section 17 (7) of article IV of the constitution is created to read:
[Article IV] Section 17 (7)  No person may pay to or receive from another 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1855 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  5
person money or any other thing of value based on the number of signatures 
obtained on an initiative or referendum petition under this section.  This subsection 
does not prohibit payment for signature gathering that is not based, either directly 
or indirectly, on the number of signatures obtained.
SECTION  6.  Numbering of new provisions.  If another constitutional 
amendment ratified by the people creates the number of any provision created in 
this joint resolution, the chief of the legislative reference bureau shall determine 
the sequencing and the numbering of the provisions whose numbers conflict and 
shall adjust any cross-references to those provisions.
Be it further resolved, That  this proposed amendment be referred to the 
legislature to be chosen at the next general election and that it be published for 
three months previous to the time of holding such election. Y.
(b)  No later than November 1, 2025, both houses of the legislature shall hold 
a final vote on the joint resolution under par. (a).
SECTION  9129 . Nonstatutory provisions; Lieutenant Governor.
SECTION  9130 . Nonstatutory provisions; Local Government.
(1)  L EVY LIMIT  EXCEPTION  FOR REGIONAL  PLANNING  COMMISSION  CHARGES .  
For the purposes of a levy imposed by a city, village, town, or county in December 
2025, the base amount to which s. 66.0602 (2) applies does not include any amount 
that the city, village, town, or county levied in the immediately preceding year to 
pay for the city [s, village [s, town[s, or county [s share of a regional planning 
commission [s budget as charged by the commission under s. 66.0309 (14) (a) to (c).
SECTION  9131 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Military Affairs.
(1)  P AYMENT  TO THE TOWN OF WESTPORT  FOR DISASTER  ASSISTANCE .  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1856 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9131
Notwithstanding the requirements under s. 323.31, from the appropriation under s. 
20.465 (3) (b), in the 2025-26 fiscal year, the department of military affairs shall 
provide a payment of $68,100 to the Town of Westport to reimburse the costs 
incurred from storm damage.
SECTION  9132 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Natural Resources.
(1)  N ONPROFIT  CONSERVATION  ORGANIZATION  GRANTS .  In the 2025-26 fiscal 
year, from the appropriation under s. 20.370 (5) (aa), the department of natural 
resources shall provide grants to Gathering Waters, as authorized under s. 23.0955; 
to the Natural Resources Foundation of Wisconsin, as authorized under s. 23.0956; 
to River Alliance of Wisconsin, as authorized under s. 281.72; and to Wisconsin 
Lakes, as authorized under s. 281.69 (1r). 
(2)  E MERGENCY  RULES  FOR PFAS COMMUNITY  GRANT  PROGRAM .  The 
department of natural resources may use the procedure under s. 227.24 to 
promulgate emergency rules relating to the community grant program under s. 
292.67.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the department is not required to 
provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this subsection as an emergency 
rule is necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety, or welfare 
and is not required to provide a finding of emergency for a rule promulgated under 
this subsection.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (e) 1d. and 1g., for emergency rules 
promulgated under this subsection, the department is not required to prepare a 
statement of scope of the rules or to submit the proposed rules in final draft form to 
the governor for approval.
(3)  S TATEWIDE  BIOMONITORING  STUDIES .  The department of health services 
shall conduct biomonitoring studies across the state to assess perfluoroalkyl and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1857 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9132
polyfluoroalkyl substance exposure levels and better understand the factors that 
affect perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance exposure levels in different 
communities.  The department may, as part of these studies, survey volunteer 
participants, test blood samples for the presence and levels of perfluoroalkyl and 
polyfluoroalkyl substances, and analyze the results.
(4)  F ORESTRY -INDUSTRY -WIDE  STRATEGIC  PLAN .  From the appropriation under 
s. 20.370 (2) (jq), the department of natural resources shall develop a forestry-
industry-wide strategic plan and road map.  The department shall submit the final 
report on this plan and road map to the council on forestry no later than September 
16, 2026.
(5)  E MERGENCY  RULE -MAKING  AUTHORITY ; GREAT  LAKES  EROSION  CONTROL  
REVOLVING  LOAN  PROGRAM .  The department of natural resources may use the 
procedure under s. 227.24 to promulgate emergency rules under s. 23.1991 for the 
period before the date on which permanent rules under s. 23.1991 take effect.  
Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), emergency rules promulgated under this 
subsection remain in effect until the first day of the 25th month beginning after the 
effective date of the emergency rules, the date on which the permanent rules take 
effect, or the effective date of the repeal of the emergency rules, whichever is 
earliest. Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the department of natural 
resources is not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this 
subsection as emergency rules is necessary for the preservation of public peace, 
health, safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of emergency for a 
rule promulgated under this subsection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1858 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9132
(6)  E MERGENCY  RULE -MAKING  AUTHORITY ; M ISSISSIPPI  RIVER EROSION  
CONTROL  REVOLVING  LOAN  PROGRAM .  The department of natural resources may use 
the procedure under s. 227.24 to promulgate emergency rules under s. 23.1993 for 
the period before the date on which permanent rules under s. 23.1993 take effect.  
Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), emergency rules promulgated under this 
subsection remain in effect until the first day of the 25th month beginning after the 
effective date of the emergency rules, the date on which the permanent rules take 
effect, or the effective date of the repeal of the emergency rules, whichever is 
earliest. Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the department of natural 
resources is not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this 
subsection as emergency rules is necessary for the preservation of public peace, 
health, safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of emergency for a 
rule promulgated under this subsection.
(7)  N OTIFICATION  OF U.S. C OAST  GUARD  RULES  FOR VESSEL  DISCHARGE .  When 
the department of natural resources determines that the secretary of the U.S. 
department of homeland security has promulgated final, effective, and enforceable 
rules under 33 USC 1322 (p) (5), the department shall notify the legislative 
reference bureau.  The legislative reference bureau shall publish a notice in the 
Wisconsin Administrative Register that specifies that date.
(8)  W ELL COMPENSATION  EARMARK  FOR THE TOWN  OF B LOOM .  
Notwithstanding s. 281.75 (4) (b) 4., the town of Bloom in Richland County is 
eligible for a claim under s. 281.75, not to exceed $16,000.
SECTION  9133 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Public Defender Board.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1859 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9133
(1)  I NCUMBENT  STAFF .  Individuals in project positions that were funded by 
the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, P.L. 117-2, and funded from the 
appropriation under s. 20.550 (1) (m), and who are employed by the public defender 
board on the day before the effective date of this subsection may be appointed to the 
permanent equivalent of those positions, funded from the appropriation under s. 
20.550 (1) (a), notwithstanding any provision of ch. 230.
SECTION  9134 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Public Instruction.
(1)  F OUR-YEAR -OLD KINDERGARTEN  CONTRACTS ; EMERGENCY  RULES .  The 
department of public instruction may promulgate emergency rules under s. 227.24 
to implement s. 115.445 (2m).  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a), (2) (b), and (3), the 
department is not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this 
subsection as an emergency rule is necessary for the preservation of the public 
peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of 
emergency for a rule promulgated under this subsection.
SECTION  9135 . Nonstatutory provisions; Public Lands, Board of 
Commissioners of.
SECTION  9136 . Nonstatutory provisions; Public Service Commission.
SECTION  9137 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Revenue.
(1)  P ASSAGE .  This act may become law notwithstanding s. 13.085 (1).
(2)  R EFUNDS  OF CERTAIN  TAX PAYMENTS  MADE  FOR NONTAXABLE  TRIBAL  LAND .
(a)  In this subsection:
1.  XClaimant Y means an individual who paid property taxes levied between 
2015 and 2021 on real property exempt from taxation under the 1854 Treaty of La 
Pointe and who did not pay such taxes under protest.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1860 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9137
2.  XDepartment Y means the department of revenue.
(b)  Subject to the limitations under this subsection, a claimant is eligible to 
receive a payment as determined under par. (d).
(c)  A claimant may file a claim for a payment under this subsection to 
compensate the claimant for property taxes levied between 2015 and 2021 on real 
property exempt from taxation under the 1854 Treaty of La Pointe that the 
claimant paid.  The department shall establish procedures for claimants to file a 
claim for a payment under this subsection.  No claimant may make a claim for a 
payment under this subsection after May 31, 2026.
(d)  A claimant who files a claim under par. (c) shall receive a payment equal to 
the amount of property taxes levied between 2015 and 2021 on real property 
exempt from taxation under the Treaty of La Pointe paid by the claimant.
(e)  For each payment under this subsection approved by the department, the 
department shall certify the allowable amount of the payment to the department of 
administration for payment to the claimant by check, share draft, or other draft 
drawn from the appropriation account under s. 20.835 (1) (b).  The department of 
administration shall make all payments due under this subsection no later than 
June 30, 2026.
SECTION  9138 . Nonstatutory provisions; Safety and Professional 
Services.
(1)  DSPS CREDENTIAL  INVESTIGATIONS ; EMERGENCY  RULES .  Using the 
procedure under s. 227.24, the department of safety and professional services and 
any credentialing board, as defined in s. 440.01 (2) (bm), may promulgate rules that 
are necessary to implement s. 440.03 (13) (br).  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1861 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9138
and (3), the department or credentialing board is not required to provide evidence 
that promulgating a rule under this subsection as an emergency rule is necessary 
for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety, or welfare and is not required 
to provide a finding of emergency for a rule promulgated under this subsection.  
Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), emergency rules promulgated under this 
subsection remain in effect until July 1, 2027, or the date on which permanent rules 
take effect, whichever is sooner, and the effective period may not be further 
extended under s. 227.24 (2).
(2)  A DVANCED  PRACTICE  REGISTERED  NURSES ; EMERGENCY  RULES .  Using the 
procedure under s. 227.24, the board of nursing may promulgate rules under ch. 
441 that are necessary to implement the changes to the licensure of advanced 
practice registered nurses.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (a) and (3), the board is 
not required to provide evidence that promulgating a rule under this subsection as 
an emergency rule is necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, 
safety, or welfare and is not required to provide a finding of emergency for a rule 
promulgated under this subsection.  A rule promulgated under this subsection may 
take effect no later than the first day of the 13th month beginning after the effective 
date of this subsection.  Notwithstanding s. 227.24 (1) (c) and (2), a rule 
promulgated under this subsection is effective for 2 years after its promulgation, or 
until permanent rules take effect, whichever is sooner, and the effective period of a 
rule promulgated under this subsection may not be further extended under s. 
227.24 (2).
(3)  A DVANCED  PRACTICE  REGISTERED  NURSES ; RECOGNIZED  ROLES .1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1862 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9138
(a)  In this subsection, the definitions under s. 441.001 apply.
(b)  Notwithstanding s. 441.09 (3), an individual who, on January 1, 2026, is 
licensed as a registered nurse in this state and is practicing in a recognized role may 
continue to practice advanced practice registered nursing and the corresponding 
recognized role in which he or she is practicing and may continue to use the titles 
corresponding to the recognized roles in which he or she is practicing during the 
period before which the board takes final action on the person [s application under s. 
441.09.  This paragraph does not apply after the first day of the 13th month 
beginning after the effective date of this paragraph.
SECTION  9139 . Nonstatutory provisions; Secretary of State.
SECTION  9140 . Nonstatutory provisions; State Fair Park Board.
SECTION  9141 . Nonstatutory provisions; Supreme Court.
SECTION  9142 . Nonstatutory provisions; Technical College System.
SECTION  9143 . Nonstatutory provisions; Tourism.
(1)  T RANSFER  OF AMERICAN  INDIAN  TOURISM  MARKETING  CONTRACT .  The 
contract between the department of tourism and the Great Lakes inter-tribal 
council in effect on the effective date of this subsection that is primarily related to 
the promotion of tourism featuring American Indian heritage and culture, as 
determined by the secretary of administration, is transferred to the department of 
administration.  The department of administration shall carry out any obligations 
under such a contract until the contract is modified or rescinded by the department 
of administration to the extent allowed under the contract.
SECTION  9144 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Transportation.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1863 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9144
(1)  S OUND  BARRIERS  ON I 894.  During the 202527 fiscal biennium, the 
department of transportation shall allocate $19,500,000 from the appropriation 
under s. 20.395 (3) (cq) for the construction of sound barriers on I 894, between 27th 
street and 76th street, in Milwaukee County. 
(2)  H ARBOR  ASSISTANCE  PROGRAM  PRIORITY .  Notwithstanding s. 85.095 (2) 
and (3), in the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, when making grant awards for the harbor 
assistance program under s. 85.095, the department of transportation shall give 
priority to municipalities in which a shipbuilder in this state is conducting 
operations. 
(3)  C ITY OF SHEBOYGAN  MARINA  EDUCATIONAL  FACILITY .  In the 2025-27 fiscal 
biennium, from the appropriations under ss. 20.395 (2) (cq) and 20.866 (2) (uv), 
notwithstanding the eligibility criteria under s. 85.095, the department of 
transportation shall award a grant under s. 85.095 (2) (a) to the city of Sheboygan 
for the construction of an educational facility at the Harbor Centre Marina.  The 
amount of the grant awarded under this subsection shall be $3,000,000 or the total 
cost of the project, whichever is less.
(4)  P RIORITIZATION  OF LOCAL  BRIDGE  AND CULVERT  ASSESSMENT  IN CERTAIN  
GRANTS .  During the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, the department of transportation 
shall designate 10 percent of moneys appropriated under s. 20.395 (2) (fd) and 10 
percent of the moneys appropriated under s. 20.395 (2) (fc) and (fu) for grants for 
improvements to bridges or culverts identified as being in poor or worse condition in 
local bridge and culvert assessments performed under s. 85.64.  The department of 
transportation shall establish criteria for evaluating the suitability of projects for 
which applications are made under s. 86.31 (3o) and (3s) for the moneys designated 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1864 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9144
under this subsection.  If the department does not receive sufficient complete grant 
applications meeting the criteria under this subsection in the 2025 27 fiscal 
biennium, the moneys designated under this subsection shall be available for any 
other purpose for which the moneys were appropriated.
(5)  V ILLAGE  OF ONTARIO  STREET  DEVELOPMENT .  Notwithstanding limitations 
on the amount and use of aids provided under s. 86.31 or eligibility requirements for 
receiving aids under s. 86.31, in the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, from the 
appropriation under s. 20.395 (2) (fd), the department of transportation shall award 
a grant to the village of Ontario for residential street development.  The grant 
under this subsection shall be in the amount of $500,000.
(6)  V ILLAGE  OF DEFOREST  INTERCHANGE  IMPROVEMENT .  Notwithstanding 
limitations on the amount and use of aids provided under s. 86.31 or eligibility 
requirements for receiving aids under s. 86.31, in the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, from 
the appropriation under s. 20.395 (2) (fd), the department of transportation shall 
award a grant to the village of DeForest for improvements to the I 39/CTH XVY 
interchange.  The grant under this subsection shall be in the amount of $6,000,000.
SECTION  9145 . Nonstatutory provisions; Treasurer.
SECTION  9146 . Nonstatutory provisions; University of Wisconsin 
Hospitals and Clinics Authority; Medical College of Wisconsin.
SECTION  9147 . Nonstatutory provisions; University of Wisconsin 
System.
(1)  P AID SICK LEAVE  FOR TEMPORARY  EMPLOYEES .  The Board of Regents of the 
University of Wisconsin System shall submit to the administrator of the division of 
personnel management in the department of administration, with its 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1865 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9147
recommendations for adjustments to compensation and employee benefits for 
employees of the system under s. 230.12 (3) (e) 1. for the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, a 
plan to provide paid sick leave benefits to temporary employees of the system.  The 
plan shall provide sick leave benefits at the same rate such benefits are provided to 
permanent and project employees of the system.
(2)  J UNETEENTH  HOLIDAY  AND VETERANS  DAY.  The administrator of the 
division of personnel management in the department of administration shall 
include June 19 and November 11 as paid holidays in the proposal for adjusting 
compensation and employee benefits for University of Wisconsin System employees 
for the 2025-26 and 2026-27 fiscal years that it submits to the joint committee on 
employee relations under s. 230.12 (3) (e) 1.  The recommendation shall specify that 
the first June 19 paid holiday is June 19, 2026, and the first November 11 paid 
holiday is November 11, 2026.
(3)  F UNDING  FOR THE UNIVERSITY  OF W ISCONSIN  M ISSING -IN-ACTION  
RECOVERY  AND IDENTIFICATION  PROJECT .
(a)  In this subsection:
1.  XBoardY means the Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.
2.  XMIA Recovery Project Y means the University of Wisconsin Missing-in-
Action Recovery and Identification Project.
(b)  From the appropriation under s. 20.285 (1) (a), the board shall provide 
$500,000 in funding in each fiscal year of the 2025-27 fiscal biennium for the MIA 
Recovery Project to perform a mission for the recovery and identification of 
Wisconsin veterans who are missing in action.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1866 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9147
(c)  The MIA Recovery Project, acting through its representative, shall submit 
at the conclusion of the mission for which the funds were expended, to the board, 
the joint committee on finance, the standing committees of each house of the 
legislature dealing with veterans matters, the governor, the department of veterans 
affairs, and the department of military affairs, a report on the mission [s findings 
and an accounting of expenditures for the mission.
(4)  P AID FAMILY  AND MEDICAL  LEAVE .
(a)  Definitions.   In this subsection:
1.  XFamily leave Y means leave from employment for a reason specified in s. 
103.10 (3) (b).
2.  XMedical isolation Y means any of the following:
a.  When a health care professional, a local health officer, or the department of 
health services advises that an individual seclude herself or himself from others 
when the individual is awaiting the result of a diagnostic test for a communicable 
disease or when the individual is infected with a communicable disease.
b.  When a local health officer or the department of health services advises 
that an individual isolate or quarantine under s. 252.06.
c.  When an individual [s employer advises that the individual not come to the 
workplace due to a concern that the individual may have been exposed to or infected 
with a communicable disease.
3.  XMedical leave Y means leave from employment when an employee is in 
medical isolation or has a serious health condition that makes the employee unable 
to perform his or her employment duties, or makes the employee unable to perform 
the duties of any suitable employment.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1867 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9147
4.  XSerious health condition Y has the meaning given in s. 103.10 (1) (g).
(b)  Program plan.   The Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin 
System shall submit to the administrator of the division of personnel management 
in the department of administration, with its recommendations for adjustments to 
compensation and employee benefits for employees of the system under s. 230.12 (3) 
(e) 1. for 2025-27, a plan for a program to provide paid family and medical leave for 
8 weeks annually to employees of the system.  If the the joint committee on 
employment relations approves the program for paid family and medical leave, it 
shall go into effect on January 1, 2027.
(5)  F UNDING  ALLOCATION  FOR A STATEWIDE  PARKINSON [S DISEASE  REGISTRY .  
From the appropriation under s. 20.285 (1) (a), the Board of Regents of the 
University of Wisconsin System shall allocate in fiscal year 2025-26, at least 
$3,900,000, and in fiscal year 2026-27, at least $2,400,000, to establish the 
statewide Parkinson [s disease registry under s. 36.47.
(6)  F UNDING  ALLOCATIONS  FOR CERTAIN  PROGRAMS  AND INITIATIVES .
(a)  In this subsection:
1.  XBoardY means the Board of Regents of the system.
2.  XSystemY means the University of Wisconsin System.
(b)  From the appropriation under s. 20.285 (1) (a), the board shall allocate at 
least the following amounts for the following purposes:
1.  In fiscal year 2025-26, $1,209,500, and in fiscal year 2026-27, $1,612,500, to 
increase assistance to veterans and military personnel enrolled in the system and 
to their families.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1868 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9147
2.  In each fiscal year of the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, $1,001,500, for the 
program under s. 36.61, including any extension of program eligibility to additional 
health care providers, as defined in s. 36.61 (1) (b).
3.  In each fiscal year of the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, $500,000, to establish or 
continue foster youth programming for eligible students enrolled in the system.
4.  In each fiscal year of the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, $300,000, for the 
University of Wisconsin ]Madison [s UniverCity Alliance program that leverages the 
university [s academic and research resources to address challenges faced by urban 
areas.
5.  In each fiscal year of the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, $1,000,000, to support 
journalism programs and fellowships for students and graduates of journalism 
programs at system institutions.
6.  In each fiscal year of the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, $250,000, for the system 
to provide education, training, research, and technical assistance to support small 
businesses and entrepreneurs, economic development practitioners, and 
communities in the development of entrepreneurial activity in rural Wisconsin.
(7)  G RANT  TO THE INSTITUTE  FOR HEALTHY  AGING .  From the appropriation 
under s. 20.285 (1) (a), the Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System 
shall award a grant of $450,000 in each fiscal year of the 2025-27 fiscal biennium to 
the Institute for Healthy Aging to support programs in fall prevention and recovery 
training.
SECTION  9148 . Nonstatutory provisions; Veterans Affairs.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
222025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1869 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9149
SECTION  9149 .  Nonstatutory provisions; Wisconsin Economic 
Development Corporation.
(1)  F UNDING  FOR THE GREEN  INNOVATION  FUND.  Notwithstanding the cap on 
expenditures specified in s. 20.192 (1) (a), in fiscal year 2025-26, the amount the 
Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation may expend from the appropriation 
under s. 20.192 (1) (a) is increased by $50,000,000 for the purpose of supporting the 
Green Innovation Fund as it existed on January 1, 2025.  In this subsection, XGreen 
Innovation Fund Y means the green bank, known as the Green Innovation Fund, 
administered by the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation in collaboration 
with the Department of Administration based on the advice of the Governor [s 
Green Ribbon Commission on Clean Energy and Environmental Innovation 
established by executive order 195, issued April 19, 2023.
(2)  E NTERPRISE  ZONE  DESIGNATION  LIMIT .  The treatment of s. 238.399 (3) (a) 
may not be construed to require that the Wisconsin Economic Development 
Corporation revoke a certification for tax benefits under s. 238.399 that is in effect 
on the effective date of this subsection.
(3)  A CCELERATE  WISCONSIN .  Notwithstanding the cap on expenditures 
specified in s. 20.192 (1) (a), in fiscal year 2025-26, the amount the Wisconsin 
Economic Development Corporation may expend from the appropriation under s. 
20.192 (1) (a) is increased by $10,000,000 for the purpose of supporting a business 
accelerator program to be administered in cooperation with the University of 
Wisconsin System and aimed at developing research, including research from the 
University of Wisconsin System, into new startup businesses.  As part of the 
program, the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation may award grants 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1870 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9149
directly to businesses to assist in their growth and development and may award 
grants to or in support of business incubators.
(4)  F ORWARD  AGRICULTURE  SUPPORT .  Notwithstanding the cap on 
expenditures specified in s. 20.192 (1) (a), in fiscal year 2025-26, the amount the 
Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation may expend from the appropriation 
under s. 20.192 (1) (a) is increased by $15,000,000 for the purpose of providing state 
matching funds related to federal funding in conjunction with WiSys [s Forward 
Agriculture program to promote sustainable agriculture.
(5)  T HRIVE  RURAL  WISCONSIN  FUNDING  ACCESSIBILITY .  Notwithstanding the 
cap on expenditures specified in s. 20.192 (1) (a), in fiscal year 2025-26, the amount 
the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation may expend from the 
appropriation under s. 20.192 (1) (a) is increased by $5,000,000 for the purpose of 
supporting the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation [s Thrive Rural 
Wisconsin program.  The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation shall 
provide funding to its established regional and tribal partners to develop and fund 
projects in nonmetropolitan municipalities with populations of less than 10,000 to 
provide for increased availability and accessibility of local project capital.
(6)  T RIBAL  ENTERPRISE  ACCELERATOR  PROGRAM .  Notwithstanding the cap on 
expenditures specified in s. 20.192 (1) (a), in fiscal year 2025-26, the amount the 
Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation may expend from the appropriation 
under s. 20.192 (1) (a) is increased by $5,000,000 for the purpose of creating a tribal 
enterprise accelerator program to offer statewide technical assistance and grants 
for community development investment and capacity building to American Indian 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1871 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9149
tribes or bands in this state to diversify their revenue strategies in industries other 
than the gaming and entertainment industries.
(7)  A DVANCED  MANUFACTURING  GRANTS .  Notwithstanding the cap on 
expenditures specified in s. 20.192 (1) (a), in fiscal year 2025-26, the amount the 
Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation may expend from the appropriation 
under s. 20.192 (1) (a) is increased by $5,000,000 for the purpose of establishing a 
program to award matching grants to small and midsized manufacturing 
companies located in this state to invest in advanced manufacturing technologies.  
No one company may receive more than $200,000 in grants under this subsection, 
and no one grant under this subsection may be for an amount that is more than one-
third of the amount invested in advanced manufacturing technologies by the 
company.  To receive a grant under this subsection, a company must commit to not 
reduce its employment below the level when the grant is awarded.  If within 10 
years after receiving a grant under this subsection the company that receives the 
grant fails to meet this commitment, the company shall repay the grant amount to 
the Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation.  The Wisconsin Economic 
Development Corporation may provide an exemption to the repayment requirement 
under this subsection if it finds that the company has undergone a unique hardship.
(8)  M AIN STREET  BOUNCEBACK  GRANTS .  Notwithstanding the cap on 
expenditures specified in s. 20.192 (1) (a), in fiscal year 2025-26, the amount the 
Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation may expend from the appropriation 
under s. 20.192 (1) (a) is increased by $50,000,000 for the purpose of awarding 
grants of $10,000 each to small businesses and nonprofit organizations that open a 
new location or expand operations in a vacant commercial space.  A recipient of a 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1872 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9149
grant under this subsection may use grant moneys for commercial lease and 
mortgage payments, business operating expenses, and commercial building repair 
and tenant improvements.
SECTION  9150 . Nonstatutory provisions; Workforce Development.
(1)  W ORKER[S COMPENSATION  INSURANCE ; RATE  APPROVAL ; NOTICE .  The 
commissioner of insurance shall submit to the legislative reference bureau for 
publication in the Wisconsin Administrative Register a notice of the effective date of 
new rates for worker [s compensation insurance first approved by the commissioner 
under s. 626.13 after the effective date of this subsection.
(2)  P REDICTABLE  WORK  SCHEDULES  FOR RETAIL , FOOD  SERVICE , AND CLEANING  
EMPLOYEES ; TRANSITIONAL  PROVISIONS .  No later than the effective date of this 
subsection, an employer, as defined in s. 103.035 (1) (e), shall provide each service 
employee, as defined in s. 103.035 (1) (L), with a written copy of the service 
employee [s work schedule, as defined in s. 103.035 (1) (o).  That work schedule is 
considered a work schedule provided to a service employee under s. 103.035 (3) (a) 
2. for all purposes under s. 103.035, including that the employer shall post a copy of 
the work schedule as provided in s. 103.035 (3) (a) 3., and, if the employer changes 
that work schedule, s. 103.035 (3) (a) 2. applies to that change.
(3)  W ORKFORCE  INNOVATION  GRANT  PROGRAM .  Of the amounts appropriated 
under s. 20.445 (1) (bw) in the 2025-26 fiscal year, the department shall allocate 
$15,000,000 for grants for workforce development in the area of artificial 
intelligence and $25,000,000 for grants for healthcare workforce development.
(4)  M INIMUM  WAGE  STUDY  COMMITTEE .1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1873 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9150
(a)  The secretary of workforce development shall establish a minimum wage 
study committee under s. 15.04 (1) (c).  The committee shall consist of the following:
1.  Five members appointed by the governor.
2.  One member appointed by the speaker of the assembly.
3.  One member appointed by the minority leader of the assembly.
4.  One member appointed by the majority leader of the senate.
5.  One member appointed by the minority leader of the senate.
(b)  The committee created under par. (a) shall study options to increase the 
minimum wage for workers in this state to ensure that all Wisconsin workers earn 
a living wage.
(c)  No later than October 1, 2026, the committee created under par. (a) shall 
submit to the governor and the appropriate standing committees of the legislature 
in the manner provided under s. 13.172 (3) a report that includes recommendations 
regarding the options for achieving a minimum wage and other means of increasing 
worker compensation in this state that allow a worker to earn a living wage.
(d)  The minimum wage study committee terminates upon submission of the 
report under par. (c).
(5)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; ELECTRONIC  COMMUNICATIONS .  The 
department of workforce development shall submit to the legislative reference 
bureau for publication in the Wisconsin administrative register a notice indicating 
the date upon which the department is able to implement the treatment of s. 108.14 
(2e).
(6)  W ISCONSIN  FAST FORWARD  ALLOCATIONS .
(a)  Green jobs training.   From the appropriation under s. 20.445 (1) (b), in 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1874 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9150
fiscal year 2025-26, the department of workforce development shall allocate 
$2,000,000 for grants under s. 106.27 (1) to public or private organizations for the 
development and implementation of green jobs training programs in this state.  In 
this paragraph, Xgreen jobs Y means jobs that produce goods or provide services that 
benefit the environment or conserve natural resources.
(b)  Teacher apprentice incentives.   From the appropriation under s. 20.445 (1) 
(b), in each year of the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, the department of workforce 
development shall allocate $1,000,000 to provide grants under s. 106.27 (1) to 
support costs of sponsoring teacher apprentices under subch. I of ch. 106.
(c)  Health care industry training.  From the appropriation under s. 20.445 (1) 
(b), in each year of the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, the department of workforce 
development shall allocate $500,000 for grants under s. 106.27 (1) to support 
training in the health care industry.
(d)  Artificial intelligence.   From the appropriation under s. 20.445 (1) (b), in 
each year of the 2025-27 fiscal biennium, the department of workforce development 
shall allocate $200,000 for grants under s. 106.27 (1) to help school districts to 
prepare students for a future that includes artificial intelligence.
SECTION  9151 . Nonstatutory provisions; Other.
(1)  L EGISLATIVE  INTENT .  The legislature intends the repeal of ss.  49.141 (1) (j) 
2., 115.76 (12) (a) 2. and 3., and 769.401 (2) (g), the renumbering and amendment of 
ss. 891.40 (1) and 891.41 (1) (b), the amendment of ss.  29.219 (4), 29.228 (5) and (6), 
29.229 (2) (i), 29.2295 (2) (i), 29.607 (3), 45.01 (6) (c), 45.51 (3) (c) 2. and (5) (a) 1. b. 
and c., 45.55, 46.10 (2), 48.02 (13), 48.025 (title), (2) (b), and (3) (c), 48.27 (3) (b) 1. a. 
and b. and (5), 48.299 (6) (intro.) and (e) 1., 2., 3., and 4. and (7), 48.355 (4g) (a) 1., 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1875 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9151
48.396 (2) (dm), 48.42 (1g) (a) 4., (b), and (c) and (2) (b) 1. and 2. and (bm) 1., 48.422 
(6) (a) and (7) (bm) and (br), 48.423 (2) (d), 48.432 (1) (am) 2. b., 48.63 (3) (b) 4. and 
5., 48.82 (1) (a), 48.837 (1r) (d) and (e) and (6) (b) and (br), 48.913 (1) (a), (b), and (h), 
(2) (intro.), (b), and (c) (intro.), (3), (4), and (7), 48.9795 (1) (a) 1. c. and (b), 49.141 (1) 
(j) 1., 49.155 (1m) (c) 1g. and 1h., 49.163 (2) (am) 2., 49.19 (1) (a) 2. a. and (4) (d) 
(intro.), 1., 2., 3., 4., and 5., 49.345 (2), 49.43 (12), 49.471 (1) (b) 2., 49.90 (4), 54.01 
(36) (a), 54.960 (1), 69.03 (15), 69.11 (4) (b), 69.12 (5), 69.13 (2) (b) 4., 69.14 (1) (c) 4., 
(e) (title) and 1., (f) 1., and (g) and (2) (b) 2. d., 69.15 (1), (3) (title), (a) (intro.), 1., 2., 
and 3., (b) 1., 2., 3., and 4. (intro.), a., and b., and (d), and (3m) (title), (a) (intro.) and 
3., and (b), 71.03 (2) (d) (title), 1., 2., and 3., (g), and (m) 2. and (4) (a) (as it relates to 
gendered references), 71.05 (22) (a) (title), 71.07 (5m) (a) 3. and (9e) (b), 71.09 (13) 
(a) 2., 71.52 (4), 71.83 (1) (a) 8. and (b) 5., 77.25 (8m), 77.54 (7) (b) 1., 101.91 (5m), 
102.07 (5) (b) and (c), 103.10 (1) (h), 103.165 (3) (a) 3., 111.32 (12), 115.76 (12) (a) 1. 
and (13), 146.34 (1) (f), 157.05, 182.004 (6), 250.04 (3) (a), 301.50 (1), 700.19 (2), 
705.01 (4) and (4m), 706.09 (1) (e), 765.001 (2), 765.01, 765.03 (1), 765.16 (1m) 
(intro.) and (c), 765.23, 765.24, 765.30 (3) (a), 766.587 (7) (form) 9., 766.588 (9) 
(form) 13., 766.589 (10) (form) 14., 767.215 (2) (b) and (5) (a) 2., 767.323, 767.80 (1) 
(intro.) and (c) and (2), 767.803, 767.804 (1) (a) 4., 767.805 (title), (1), (1m), (2) (a) 
and (b), (3) (title) and (a), (4) (intro.) and (d), (5) (a) and (b), and (6) (a) (intro.), 
767.855, 767.863 (1m), 767.87 (1m) (intro.), (8), and (9), 767.883 (1), 769.316 (9), 
769.401 (2) (a), 815.20 (1), 822.40 (4), 851.30 (2) (a), 852.01 (1) (f) 1., 2., and 3., 
854.03 (3), 891.39 (title), (1) (a) and (b), and (3), 891.40 (2), 891.405, 891.407, 891.41 
(title), (1) (intro.) and (a), and (2), 905.05 (title), 938.02 (13), 938.396 (2g) (g), 943.20 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1876 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9151
(2) (c), 943.201 (1) (b) 8., and 943.205 (2) (b), and the creation of ss. 69.15 (3) (b) 3m., 
765.02 (3), 891.40 (1) (b) and (3), 891.41 (3), and 990.01 (22h), (39), and (40m), and 
the repeal and recreation of s. 29.563 (3) (a) 3. (as it relates to gendered references) 
to harmonize the language of the Wisconsin statutes relating to marriage and the 
determination of parentage with the provision of s. 990.001 (2), which specifies that 
words importing one gender extend and may be applied to any gender.  The 
legislature intends that by amending the statutes relating to marriage and the 
determination of parentage with respect to married couples to use gender neutral 
language where appropriate so as to clarify that the same statutory rights and 
responsibilities apply between married persons of the same sex as between married 
persons of different sexes and to extend some of the presumptions of paternity to 
either parent, the Wisconsin statutes will be better aligned with the holding of the 
U.S. Supreme Court in Obergefell v. Hodges , 135 S. Ct. 2584, 192 L. Ed. 2d 609 
(2015), which recognizes that same-sex couples have a fundamental constitutional 
right to marriage.
(2)  D ELAYED  PENALTY  APPLICATION  FOR VIOLATING  PROHIBITION .  
Notwithstanding s. 941.285, no person may be subject to a penalty for violating s. 
941.285 (1) with regard to the possession of any device prohibited under that 
section for the first 180 days after the effective date of this subsection.
(3)  R EAL ESTATE  CONDITION  REPORTS ; DISCLOSURES  RELATED  TO FLOODING .  
Notwithstanding s. 709.035, the treatment of ss. 709.03 (form) F4., G1., and G1m. 
and 709.033 (form) E3., F3m., and F3n. does not require a property owner that has 
furnished to a prospective buyer of the property an original or amended report 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1877 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9151
before the effective date of this subsection to submit an amended report with 
respect to the information required by ss. 709.03 (form) F4., G1., and G1m. and 
709.033 (form) E3., F3m., and F3n.
SECTION  9201 . Fiscal changes; Administration.
SECTION  9202 . Fiscal changes; Agriculture, Trade and Consumer 
Protection.
SECTION  9203 . Fiscal changes; Arts Board.
SECTION  9204 . Fiscal changes; Building Commission.
SECTION  9205 . Fiscal changes; Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention 
Board.
SECTION  9206 . Fiscal changes; Children and Families.
SECTION  9207 . Fiscal changes; Circuit Courts.
SECTION  9208 . Fiscal changes; Corrections.
SECTION  9209 . Fiscal changes; Court of Appeals.
SECTION  9210 . Fiscal changes; District Attorneys.
SECTION  9211 . Fiscal changes; Educational Communications Board.
SECTION  9212 . Fiscal changes; Elections Commission.
SECTION  9213 . Fiscal changes; Employee Trust Funds.
SECTION  9214 . Fiscal changes; Employment Relations Commission.
SECTION  9215 . Fiscal changes; Ethics Commission.
SECTION  9216 .  Fiscal changes; Financial Institutions.
(1)  A PPROPRIATION  TRANSFER  TO THE OFFICE  OF THE SECRETARY  OF STATE .  
Notwithstanding s. 20.144 (1) (g), in the 2025-26 fiscal year, the amount transferred 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1878 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9216
under that appropriation to the appropriation account under s. 20.575 (1) (g) shall 
be $502,900.
SECTION  9217 . Fiscal changes; Governor.
SECTION  9218 . Fiscal changes; Health and Educational Facilities 
Authority.
SECTION  9219 .  Fiscal changes; Health Services.
(1)  E XTENDED  INTENSIVE  TREATMENT  SURCHARGE  BALANCE  TRANSFER .  The 
unencumbered balance in the appropriation account under s. 20.435 (2) (gL), 2023 
stats., is transferred to the appropriation account under s. 20.435 (2) (g).
(2)  W INNEBAGO  MENTAL  HEALTH  INSTITUTE .  There is transferred from the 
general fund to the appropriation account under s. 20.435 (2) (gk) $18,599,500 in 
fiscal year 2025-26 and $15,251,000 in fiscal year 2026-27 to support the operations 
of Winnebago Mental Health Institute.
SECTION  9220 . Fiscal changes; Higher Educational Aids Board.
SECTION  9221 . Fiscal changes; Historical Society.
SECTION  9222 . Fiscal changes; Housing and Economic Development 
Authority.
SECTION  9223 .  Fiscal changes; Insurance.
(1)  H EALTH  INSURANCE  RISK-SHARING  PLAN  BALANCE  TRANSFER .  Any balance 
of moneys that was credited to the appropriation account under s. 20.145 (5) (g), 
2013 stats., or s. 20.145 (5) (k), 2013 stats., and that was not lapsed as a result of 
2015 Wisconsin Act 55 is transferred in fiscal year 2025-26 to the appropriation 
account under s. 20.145 (1) (g).
SECTION  9224 . Fiscal changes; Investment Board.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1879 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9225
SECTION  9225 . Fiscal changes; Joint Committee on Finance.
SECTION  9226 . Fiscal changes; Judicial Commission.
SECTION  9227 . Fiscal changes; Justice.
SECTION  9228 . Fiscal changes; Legislature.
SECTION  9229 . Fiscal changes; Lieutenant Governor.
SECTION  9230 . Fiscal changes; Local Government.
SECTION  9231 . Fiscal changes; Military Affairs.
SECTION  9232 .  Fiscal changes; Natural Resources.
(1)  T RANSFER  FROM  CAPITAL  IMPROVEMENT  FUND  TO THE CONSERVATION  FUND .  
In fiscal year 2026-27, there is transferred from the capital improvement fund to 
the forestry account of the conservation fund an amount equal to the difference 
between the following:
(a)  The total amount transferred to the capital improvement fund under s. 
20.370 (5) (hq) and (hr), 2023 stats., in fiscal years 2022-23, 2023-24, 2024-25, and 
2025-26.
(b)  The total amount obligated under s. 23.0917 (3) (bt) 3. and (bw) 2. in fiscal 
years 2022-23, 2023-24, 2024-25, and 2025-26 minus $4,000,000.
(2)  W ATER  RESOURCES  ACCOUNT  LAPSES .  Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) (c), in 
fiscal year 2025-26, there is lapsed to the conservation fund $386,500 from the 
account under s. 20.370 (7) (fr); $436,600 from the account under s. 20.370 (7) (ft); 
and $176,900 from the account under s. 20.370 (7) (fw).
(3)  5 R PROCESSORS  CLEANUP  FUNDING  LAPSE .  Notwithstanding s. 20.001 (3) 
(c), the unencumbered balance of s. 20.370 (4) (hs) on the effective date of this 
subsection is lapsed to the environmental fund.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1880 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9233
SECTION  9233 . Fiscal changes; Public Defender Board.
SECTION  9234 . Fiscal changes; Public Instruction.
SECTION  9235 . Fiscal changes; Public Lands, Board of Commissioners 
of.
SECTION  9236 . Fiscal changes; Public Service Commission.
SECTION  9237 .  Fiscal changes; Revenue.
(1)  D IVISION  OF ALCOHOL  BEVERAGES .  The unencumbered balances in the 
appropriation accounts under s. 20.566 (1) (ha), 2023 stats., and s. 20.566 (1) (hd), 
2023 stats., are transferred to the appropriation account under s. 20.566 (9) (g).
(2)  D ATE OF COMPUTER  AID PAYMENTS .  In fiscal year 2025-26, there is 
transferred from the general fund to the local government fund $98,047,100.
SECTION  9238 .  Fiscal changes; Safety and Professional Services.
(1)  A DMINISTRATIVE  SERVICES ; BUILDINGS  AND SAFETY .  The unencumbered 
balance in the appropriation account under s. 20.165 (2) (kd) is transferred to the 
appropriation account under s. 20.165 (2) (j).
(2)  G ENERAL  PROGRAM  OPERATIONS ; PROFESSIONAL  REGULATION .  The 
unencumbered balance in the appropriation accounts under s. 20.165 (1) (hg), (jr), 
(jt), and (jv) are transferred to the appropriation account under s. 20.165 (1) (g).
SECTION  9239 . Fiscal changes; Secretary of State.
SECTION  9240 . Fiscal changes; State Fair Park Board.
SECTION  9241 . Fiscal changes; Supreme Court.
SECTION  9242 . Fiscal changes; Technical College System.
SECTION  9243 . Fiscal changes; Tourism.
SECTION  9244 .  Fiscal changes; Transportation.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1881 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9244
(1)  T RANSFER  FROM  FORESTRY  ACCOUNT  TO TRANSPORTATION  FUND .  On July 1, 
2026, there is transferred from the conservation fund, from the moneys received for 
forestry activities, to the transportation fund $25,000,000.
SECTION  9245 . Fiscal changes; Treasurer.
SECTION  9246 . Fiscal changes; University of Wisconsin Hospitals and 
Clinics Authority; Medical College of Wisconsin.
SECTION  9247 . Fiscal changes; University of Wisconsin System.
SECTION  9248 . Fiscal changes; Veterans Affairs.
(1)  V ETERANS  HOMES  INSTITUTIONAL  OPERATIONS .  There is transferred from 
the general fund to the appropriation account under s. 20.485 (1) (gk) $7,100,000 in 
fiscal year 2025-26 and $14,800,000 in fiscal year 2026-27.
SECTION  9249 . Fiscal changes; Wisconsin Economic Development 
Corporation.
SECTION  9250 . Fiscal changes; Workforce Development.
(1)  W ORK INJURY  SUPPLEMENTAL  BENEFITS  FUND .  On the effective date of this 
subsection, there is transferred from the appropriation account under s. 20.445 (1) 
(t) to the appropriation account under s. 20.445 (1) (rr) the unencumbered balance 
of the amount collected under s. 102.75 (1g).
SECTION  9251 . Fiscal changes; Other.
SECTION  9301 . Initial applicability; Administration.
(1)  A NNUAL  LEAVE  HOURS ; STATE  EMPLOYEES .  The treatment of s. 230.35 (1) 
(a) 1. and 1m. and (c) and (1m) (bt) 1. and 1m. first applies to a state employee [s 
anniversary of service that occurs on the effective date of this subsection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1882 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9302
SECTION  9302 . Initial applicability; Agriculture, Trade and Consumer 
Protection.
(1)  S UBSCRIBERS  PERMITTED  TO TERMINATE  BROADBAND  CONTRACTS .  The 
treatment of s. 100.2092 (1) (L) first applies to a contract that is entered into, 
renewed, or modified on the effective date of this subsection.
SECTION  9303 . Initial applicability; Arts Board.
SECTION  9304 . Initial applicability; Building Commission.
SECTION  9305 . Initial applicability; Child Abuse and Neglect 
Prevention Board.
SECTION  9306 . Initial applicability; Children and Families.
SECTION  9307 . Initial applicability; Circuit Courts.
SECTION  9308 . Initial applicability; Corrections.
(1)  A GE OF ADULT  JURISDICTION .  The treatment of ss. 48.02 (1d) and (2), 
48.44, 48.45 (1) (a) and (am) and (3), 118.163 (4), 125.07 (4) (d) and (e) 1., 125.085 (3) 
(bt), 165.83 (1) (c) 1. and 2., 301.12 (2m) and (14) (a), 302.31 (7), 938.02 (1) and 
(10m), 938.12 (2), 938.18 (2), 938.183 (3), 938.255 (1) (intro.), 938.34 (8), 938.343 (2), 
938.344 (3), 938.35 (1m), 938.355 (4) (b) and (4m) (a), 938.39, 938.44, 938.45 (1) (a) 
and (3), 938.48 (4m) (title), (a), and (b) and (14), 938.57 (3) (title), (a) (intro.), 1., and 
3., and (b), 946.50 (intro.), 948.01 (1), 948.11 (2) (am) (intro.), 948.45 (1), 948.60 (2) 
(d), 948.61 (4), 961.455 (title), (1), and (2), 961.46, 961.573 (2), 961.574 (2), 961.575 
(1), (2), and (3), and 990.01 (3) and (20), subch. IX (title) of ch. 48, and subch. IX 
(title) of ch. 938 first applies to a violation of a criminal law, civil law, or municipal 
ordinance allegedly committed on the effective date of this subsection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1883 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9308
(2)  C ONTRACTS  FOR TEMPORARY  HOUSING  IN COUNTY  JAILS .  The treatment of s. 
302.27 (1) first applies to contracts entered into, renewed, or modified on the 
effective date of this subsection.
SECTION  9309 . Initial applicability; Court of Appeals.
SECTION  9310 .  Initial applicability; District Attorneys.
(1)  C OMPENSATION  FOR SPECIAL  PROSECUTORS .  The treatment of s. 978.045 (2) 
first applies to appointments approved on the effective date of this subsection.
SECTION  9311 . Initial applicability; Educational Communications 
Board.
SECTION  9312 . Initial applicability; Elections Commission.
SECTION  9313 . Initial applicability; Employee Trust Funds.
(1)  D EFERRED  COMPENSATION ; DOMESTIC  PARTNERS .  The treatment of s. 40.02 
(8) (b) 3. first applies to benefits paid to a surviving domestic partner of a 
participant who dies on the effective date of this subsection.
(2)  D UTY DISABILITY  DEATH  BENEFITS ; DOMESTIC  PARTNERS .  The treatment of 
s. 40.65 (7) (am) 1. and (ar) 1. a. first applies to a surviving domestic partner of a 
participant who dies on the effective date of this subsection.
(3)  E MPLOYER  CONTRIBUTION  FOR HEALTH  INSURANCE  PREMIUMS .  The 
treatment of s. 40.05 (4) (a) 2. first applies to state employees hired after the 
effective date of this subsection.
SECTION  9314 . Initial applicability; Employment Relations 
Commission.
SECTION  9315 . Initial applicability; Ethics Commission.
SECTION  9316 . Initial applicability; Financial Institutions.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1884 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9317
SECTION  9317 . Initial applicability; Governor.
SECTION  9318 . Initial applicability; Health and Educational Facilities 
Authority.
SECTION  9319 .  Initial applicability; Health Services.
(1)  S UPPORT  AND IMPROVEMENT  OF EMERGENCY  MEDICAL  SERVICES .  The 
treatment of s. 256.12 (4) (a) and (c) of this act first applies to funds distributed 
under s. 256.12 (4) (a) on the effective date of this subsection.
(2)  E MERGENCY  MEDICAL  SERVICES  TRAINING  AND EXAMINATION  AID.  The 
treatment of s. 256.12 (5) (a) and (am) first applies to funds distributed under s. 
256.12 (5) (a) on the effective date of this subsection.
(3)  M EDICAID  SCHOOL -BASED  SERVICES .  The treatment of s. 49.45 (39) (b) 1. 
and 2. first applies to claims for reimbursement submitted on July 1, 2026.
(4)  D ETERMINATION  OF MEDICAL  ASSISTANCE  ELIGIBILITY  BY INDICATING  
INTEREST  ON AN INDIVIDUAL  INCOME  TAX RETURN .  The treatment of ss. 71.03 (9) and 
71.78 (4) (w) first applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2025.
SECTION  9320 . Initial applicability; Higher Educational Aids Board.
SECTION  9321 . Initial applicability; Historical Society.
SECTION  9322 . Initial applicability; Housing and Economic 
Development Authority.
SECTION  9323 . Initial applicability; Insurance.
(1)  C OVERAGE  OF INFERTILITY  SERVICES .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with these 
sections, the treatment of ss. 609.74 and 632.895 (15m) first applies to policy or 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1885 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9323
plan years beginning on January 1 of the year following the year in which this 
paragraph takes effect, except as provided in pars. (b) and (c).
(b)  For policies and plans that have a term greater than one year and contain 
provisions inconsistent with these sections, the treatment of ss. 609.74 and 632.895 
(15m) first applies to policy or plan years beginning on January 1 of the year 
following the year in which the policy or plan is extended, modified, or renewed, 
whichever is later.
(c)  For policies and plans that are affected by a collective bargaining 
agreement containing provisions inconsistent with these sections, the treatment of 
ss. 609.74 and 632.895 (15m) first applies to policy or plan years beginning on the 
effective date of this paragraph or on the day on which the collective bargaining 
agreement is entered into, extended, modified, or renewed, whichever is later.
(2)  C OVERAGE  OF INDIVIDUALS  WITH  PREEXISTING  CONDITIONS , ESSENTIAL  
HEALTH  BENEFITS , AND PREVENTIVE  SERVICES .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with these 
sections, the treatment of ss. 632.728, 632.746 (1) (a) and (b), (2) (a), (c), (d), and (e), 
(3) (a) and (d) 1., 2., and 3., (5), and (8) (a) (intro.), 632.748 (2), 632.76 (2) (a) and (ac) 
1. and 2., 632.795 (4) (a), 632.895 (8) (d), (13m), (14) (a) 1. i., j., and k. to o., (b), (c), 
and (d) 3., (14m), (16m) (b), and (17) (b) 2. and (c), and 632.897 (11) (a) first applies 
to policy or plan years beginning on January 1 of the year following the year in 
which this paragraph takes effect, except as provided in par. (b).
(b)  For policies and plans that are affected by a collective bargaining 
agreement containing provisions inconsistent with these sections, the treatment of 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1886 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9323
ss. 632.728, 632.746 (1) (a) and (b), (2) (a), (c), (d), and (e), (3) (a) and (d) 1., 2., and 
3., (5), and (8) (a) (intro.), 632.748 (2), 632.76 (2) (a) and (ac) 1. and 2., 632.795 (4) 
(a), 632.895 (8) (d), (13m), (14) (a) 1. i., j., and k. to o., (b), (c), and (d) 3., (14m), (16m) 
(b), and (17) (b) 2. and (c), and 632.897 (11) (a) first applies to policy or plan years 
beginning on the effective date of this paragraph or on the day on which the 
collective bargaining agreement is entered into, extended, modified, or renewed, 
whichever is later.
(3)  C OVERAGE  OF OVER -THE-COUNTER  ORAL  CONTRACEPTIVES .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with s. 632.895 
(17) (b) 1m., the treatment of s. 632.895 (17) (b) 1m. first applies to policy or plan 
years beginning on January 1 of the year following the year in which this paragraph 
takes effect, except as provided in par. (b).
(b)  For policies and plans that are affected by a collective bargaining 
agreement containing provisions inconsistent with s. 632.895 (17) (b) 1m., the 
treatment of s. 632.895 (17) (b) 1m. first applies to policy or plan years beginning on 
the effective date of this paragraph or on the day on which the collective bargaining 
agreement is newly established, extended, modified, or renewed, whichever is later.
(4)  Q UALIFIED  TREATMENT  TRAINEE  COVERAGE .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with ss. 40.51 (8) 
and (8m), 66.0137 (4), 120.13 (2) (g), 185.983 (1) (intro.), 609.713, and 632.87 (7), the 
treatment of ss. 40.51 (8) and (8m), 66.0137 (4), 120.13 (2) (g), 185.983 (1) (intro.), 
609.713, and 632.87 (7) first applies to policy or plan years beginning on January 1 
of the year following the year in which this paragraph takes effect, except as 
provided in par. (b).1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1887 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9323
(b)  For policies and plans that are affected by a collective bargaining 
agreement containing provisions inconsistent with ss. 40.51 (8) and (8m), 66.0137 
(4), 120.13 (2) (g), 185.983 (1) (intro.), 609.713, and 632.87 (7), the treatment of ss. 
40.51 (8) and (8m), 66.0137 (4), 120.13 (2) (g), 185.983 (1) (intro.), 609.713, and 
632.87 (7) first applies to policy or plan years beginning on the effective date of this 
paragraph or on the day on which the collective bargaining agreement is entered 
into, extended, modified, or renewed, whichever is later.
(5)  D ENTAL  THERAPIST  COVERAGE .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with ss. 609.718 
and 632.87 (1), (4), and (4e), the treatment of ss. 609.718 and 632.87 (1), (4), and 
(4e) first applies to policy or plan years beginning on January 1 of the year following 
the year in which this paragraph takes effect, except as provided in par. (b).
(b)  For policies and plans that are affected by a collective bargaining 
agreement containing provisions inconsistent with ss. 609.718 and 632.87 (1), (4), 
and (4e), the treatment of ss. 609.718 and 632.87 (1), (4), and (4e) first applies to 
policy or plan years beginning on the effective date of this paragraph or on the day 
on which the collective bargaining agreement is entered into, extended, modified, or 
renewed, whichever is later.
(6)  A PPLICATION  OF MANUFACTURER  DISCOUNTS .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with the 
treatment of s. 609.83, the treatment of s. 609.83 first applies to policy or plan years 
beginning on January 1 of the year following the year in which this paragraph takes 
effect, except as provided in par. (b).
(b)  For policies or plans that are affected by a collective bargaining agreement 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1888 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9323
containing provisions inconsistent with the treatment of s. 609.83, the treatment of 
s. 609.83 first applies to policy or plan years beginning on the effective date of this 
paragraph or on the day on which the collective bargaining agreement is newly 
established, extended, modified, or renewed, whichever is later.
(7)  A PPLICATION  OF MANUFACTURER  DISCOUNTS .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with the 
treatment of s. 632.862, the treatment of s. 632.862 first applies to policy or plan 
years beginning on January 1 of the year following the year in which this paragraph 
takes effect, except as provided in par. (b).
(b)  For policies or plans that are affected by a collective bargaining agreement 
containing provisions inconsistent with the treatment of s. 632.862, the treatment 
of s. 632.862 first applies to policy or plan years beginning on the effective date of 
this paragraph or on the day on which the collective bargaining agreement is newly 
established, extended, modified, or renewed, whichever is later.
(8)  S UBSTANCE  ABUSE  COUNSELOR  COVERAGE .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with the 
treatment of ss. 609.714 and 632.87 (8), the treatment of ss. 609.714 and 632.87 (8) 
first applies to policy or plan years beginning on January 1 of the year following the 
year in which this paragraph takes effect, except as provided in par. (b).
(b)  For policies and plans that are affected by a collective bargaining 
agreement containing provisions inconsistent with the treatment of ss. 609.714 and 
632.87 (8), the treatment of ss. 609.714 and 632.87 (8) first applies to policy or plan 
years beginning on the effective date of this paragraph or on the day on which the 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1889 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9323
collective bargaining agreement is newly established, extended, modified, or 
renewed, whichever is later.
(9)  T ELEHEALTH  PARITY .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with the 
treatment of s. 632.871, the treatment of s. 632.871 first applies to policy or plan 
years beginning on January 1 of the year following the year in which this paragraph 
takes effect, except as provided in par. (b).
(b)  For policies and plans that are affected by a collective bargaining 
agreement containing provisions inconsistent with the treatment of s. 632.871, the 
treatment of s. 632.871 first applies to policy or plan years beginning on the 
effective date of this paragraph or on the day on which the collective bargaining 
agreement is newly established, extended, modified, or renewed, whichever is later.
(10)  C OVERAGE  OF EMERGENCY  AMBULANCE  SERVICES .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with ss. 609.825 
and 632.851, the treatment of ss. 609.825 and 632.851 first applies to policy or plan 
years beginning on the effective date of this paragraph, except as provided in par. 
(b).
(b)  For policies and plans that are affected by a collective bargaining 
agreement containing provisions inconsistent with ss. 609.825 and 632.851, the 
treatment of ss. 609.825 and 632.851 first applies to policy or plan years beginning 
on the effective date of this paragraph or on the day on which the collective 
bargaining agreement is entered into, extended, modified, or renewed, whichever is 
later.
(11)  I NPATIENT  MENTAL  HEALTH  PRIOR  AUTHORIZATION .1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1890 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9323
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with ss. 609.823 
and 632.891, the treatment of ss. 609.823 and 632.891 first applies to policy or plan 
years beginning on January 1 of the year following the year in which this paragraph 
takes effect, except as provided in par. (b).
(b)  For policies and plans that are affected by a collective bargaining 
agreement containing provisions inconsistent with ss. 609.823 and 632.891, the 
treatment of ss. 609.823 and 632.891 first applies to policy or plan years beginning 
on the effective date of this subsection or on the day on which the collective 
bargaining agreement is newly established, extended, modified, or renewed, 
whichever is later.
(12)  S PECIAL  ENROLLMENT  PERIOD  FOR PREGNANCY .
(a)  For policies and plans containing provisions inconsistent with ss. 609.40 
and 632.7498, the treatment of ss. 609.40 and 632.7498 first applies to policy or 
plan years beginning on January 1 of the year following the year in which this 
paragraph takes effect, except as provided in par. (b).
(b)  For policies and plans that are affected by a collective bargaining 
agreement containing provisions inconsistent with ss. 609.40 and 632.7498, the 
treatment of ss. 609.40 and 632.7498 first applies to policy or plan years beginning 
on the effective date of this paragraph or on the day on which the collective 
bargaining agreement is newly established, extended, modified, or renewed, 
whichever is later.
SECTION  9324 . Initial applicability; Investment Board.
SECTION  9325 . Initial applicability; Joint Committee on Finance.
SECTION  9326 . Initial applicability; Judicial Commission.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1891 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9327
SECTION  9327 .  Initial applicability; Justice.
(1)  W AITING  PERIOD  FOR HANDGUN  PURCHASES .  The treatment of s. 175.35 
(2g) (c) 4. c. (by S ECTION  2288 ) and the amendment of s. 175.35 (2) (d) first apply to 
a sale that occurs on the effective date of this subsection.
(2)  T RANSFERS  OF FIREARMS .  The treatment of ss. 175.33 and 175.35 (1) (at) 
(by S ECTION  2276 ) and (br) and (2) (intro.), (a), (b), (bm), (c), and (cm) (intro.), the 
renumbering of s. 175.35 (2) (d) and (2j), and the creation of s. 175.35 (2j) (b) first 
apply to transfers that occur on the effective date of this subsection.
SECTION  9328 . Initial applicability; Legislature.
SECTION  9329 . Initial applicability; Lieutenant Governor.
SECTION  9330 . Initial applicability; Local Government.
(1)  L EVY LIMIT  EXCEPTION  FOR REGIONAL  PLANNING  COMMISSION  CHARGES .  
The treatment of s. 66.0602 (3) (e) 10. first applies to a levy that is imposed in 
December 2025.
(2)  L EVY LIMIT  SERVICE  TRANSFERS .  The treatment of s. 66.0602 (3) (a) first 
applies to a levy that is imposed in December 2025.
(3)  R EGISTER  OF DEEDS  RECORDING  FEES ; LAND  INFORMATION  PROGRAM .  The 
treatment of ss. 16.967 (7m) (b), 59.43 (2) (ag) 1. and (e), and 59.72 (5) (a) and (b) 
(intro.) first applies to an instrument that is submitted for recording or filing on the 
effective date of this subsection.
SECTION  9331 .  Initial applicability; Military Affairs.
(1)  E DUCATIONAL  GRANT  PROGRAM .  The treatment of s. 321.40 (3) (e) and (f) 
first applies to applications for educational grants for an academic term that begins 
after the effective date of this subsection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1892 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9332
SECTION  9332 . Initial applicability; Natural Resources.
SECTION  9333 . Initial applicability; Public Defender Board.
SECTION  9334 . Initial applicability; Public Instruction.
(1)  S PARSITY  AID; PAYMENTS .  The treatment of s. 115.436 (3) (a) and (c), the 
renumbering and amendment of s. 115.436 (3) (am), and the creation of s. 115.436 
(3) (am) 2. first apply to payments made under s. 115.436 in the 2025-26 school year.
(2)  G RANTS  FOR INFORMATION  TECHNOLOGY .  The treatment of s. 115.455 
(title), (1) (a) and (b), (2) (intro.), and (3) first applies to a grant awarded under s. 
115.455 on the effective date of this subsection.
(3)  A CCESS  TO PERIOD  PRODUCTS  IN INDEPENDENT  CHARTER  SCHOOLS .  The 
treatment of s. 118.40 (2r) (b) 2. m. and (2x) (b) 2. m. first applies to a contract that 
is entered into, renewed, or modified on the effective date of this subsection.
(4)  A CCESS  TO PERIOD  PRODUCTS  IN SCHOOL  DISTRICTS .  The treatment of s. 
121.02 (1) (im) first applies to the 2025-26 school year.
(5)  P ARENTAL  CHOICE  PROGRAMS ; PROGRAM  CAPS .  The treatment of ss. 118.60 
(3) (am) and (ar) (intro.) and 5. and 119.23 (3) (ar), the renumbering and 
amendment of s. 118.60 (3) (ar) 3. and 4., and the creation of s. 118.60 (3) (ar) 3. a. 
and b. and 4. a. and b. first apply to an application to attend a private school under 
s. 118.60 or 119.23 in the 2026-27 school year.
(6)  S PECIAL  NEEDS  SCHOLARSHIP  PROGRAM ; PROGRAM  CAP.  The treatment of 
s. 115.7915 (2) (f) and (g) and (3) (a), (am), (b), (bm), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) first 
applies to an application for a scholarship to attend an eligible school under s. 
115.7915 in the 2026-27 school year.
(7)  P ARENTAL  CHOICE  PROGRAMS ; TRANSFERRING  APPLICANTS  BETWEEN  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1893 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9334
PROGRAMS .  The treatment of ss. 118.60 (4v) (b), (c), and (d) and 119.23 (4v) (b), (c), 
(d), and (e) first applies to counting pupils for the pupil participation limits under s. 
118.60 (2) (be) and the program caps under ss. 118.60 (2) (bh) 2. a. and b. and 119.23 
(2) (b) for the 2026-27 school year.
(8)  C OUNTING  4-YEAR -OLD KINDERGARTEN  PUPILS .  The treatment of s. 121.004 
(7) (c) 1. a. and 2. and (cm) first applies to the distribution of school aid in, and the 
calculation of revenue limits for, the 2026-27 school year.
(9)  S PECIAL  ADJUSTMENT  AID.  The treatment of s. 121.105 (2) (am) 1. and 2. 
(intro.) first applies to the distribution of school aid in the 2025-26 school year.
(10)  R EVENUE  CEILING ; REFERENDA  RESTRICTIONS .  The repeal and recreation 
of s. 121.905 (1) first applies to the revenue ceiling for the 2025-26 school year.
(11)  H IGH COST  TRANSPORTATION  AID; ELIGIBILITY .  The treatment of s. 121.59 
(2) (a) first applies to aid paid in the 2025-26 school year.
(12)  S CHOOL  DISTRICT  REVENUE  LIMITS ; DEFINITION  OF STATE  AID.  The 
treatment of s. 121.90 (2) (am) 2. first applies to the calculation of revenue limits for 
the 2025-26 school year.
(13)  C OMPUTER  SCIENCE  COURSE  REQUIREMENT .
(a)  Independent charter school contracts.   The treatment of s. 118.40 (2r) (b) 2. 
n. and (2x) (b) 2. n. first applies to a contract that is entered into, renewed, or 
modified on the effective date of this paragraph.
(b)  Private schools participating in a parental choice program.   The treatment 
of ss. 118.60 (2) (a) 10. and 119.23 (2) (a) 10. first applies to an application to attend 
a private school under a parental choice program in the 2026-27 school year.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1894 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9335
SECTION  9335 . Initial applicability; Public Lands, Board of 
Commissioners of.
SECTION  9336 . Initial applicability; Public Service Commission.
SECTION  9337 .  Initial applicability; Revenue.
(1)  H OMESTEAD  TAX CREDIT .  The treatment of s. 71.54 (1) (h) first applies to 
claims filed for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024.
(2)  V ETERANS  AND SURVIVING  SPOUSES  PROPERTY  TAX CREDIT .  The treatment 
of s. 71.07 (6e)  (a) 6., (b), and (c) 3. first applies to taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2024.
(3)  V ETERANS  PROPERTY  TAX CREDIT  EXPANSION .  The treatment of s. 71.07 (6e) 
(a) 2. b. and 3. d. and (c) 4. first applies to taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2024.
(4)  D IVIDENDS  RECEIVED  DEDUCTION .  The treatment of ss. 71.26 (3) (j) and (4) 
(a) and 71.45 (4) (a) first applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 
2024.
(5)  E NERGY  AND LIQUEFIED  NATURAL  GAS STORAGE  FACILITIES .  The treatment 
of ss. 79.005 (1j) and (1L) and 79.04 (7m) first applies to distributions made after 
January 1, 2026.
(6)  E XPENDITURE  RESTRAINT  PROGRAM .  The treatment of s. 79.05 (1) (am) and 
(2) (c) first applies to the distributions in 2026.
(7)  T ELECOM  AND COMMUNICATION  TOWER  EXEMPTION .  The treatment of ss. 
70.11 (48) and 76.81 (1) first applies to the property tax assessments as of January 
1, 2026.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1895 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9337
(8)  T RANSIT  AUTHORITY  PROPERTY  TAX EXEMPTION .  The treatment of s. 70.11 
(2) first applies to the property tax assessments as of January 1, 2025.
(9)  F ILING  FEES  FOR PETITIONS  TO THE TAX APPEALS  COMMISSION .  The 
treatment of s. 73.01 (1) (b) and (5) (a) and (am) first applies to a petition filed with 
the tax appeals commission on the effective date of this subsection.
(10)  T AX EXEMPTION  FOR TIPS.  The treatment of s. 71.05 (1) (j) and (6) (b) 19. 
cm. and dm., 28. e. and f., 32. b. and c., 33. b. and c., 35. c. and d., 38. c. and d., 42. c. 
and d., and 43. f., the renumbering and amendment of s. 71.63 (6) (n) (intro.), and 
the repeal of s. 71.63 (6) (n) 1. and 2. first apply to taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2024.
SECTION  9338 . Initial applicability; Safety and Professional Services.
SECTION  9339 . Initial applicability; Secretary of State.
SECTION  9340 . Initial applicability; State Fair Park Board.
SECTION  9341 . Initial applicability; Supreme Court.
SECTION  9342 . Initial applicability; Technical College System.
(1)  N ONRESIDENT  TUITION  EXEMPTION  FOR CERTAIN  TRIBAL  MEMBERS .  The 
treatment of s. 38.22 (6) (g) first applies to persons who enroll for the semester or 
session following the effective date of this subsection.
(2)  N ONRESIDENT  TUITION  EXEMPTION  FOR CERTAIN  UNDOCUMENTED  
INDIVIDUALS .  The treatment of s. 38.22 (6) (e) first applies to persons who enroll for 
the semester or session following the effective date of this subsection.
(3)  T ECHNICAL  COLLEGE  DISTRICT  BOARD  REVENUE  LIMITS ; DEFINITION  OF 
REVENUE .  The treatment of s. 38.16 (3) (a) 2w. first applies to the calculation of 
district boards [ allowable revenue for the 2025-26 school year.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1896 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9342
(4)  F EE REMISSION  FOR CERTAIN  TRIBAL  MEMBERS .  The treatment of s. 38.24 
(5m) first applies to students who enroll for the semester or session following the 
effective date of this subsection.
(5)  F EE REMISSION  FOR STUDENT  TEACHERS .  The treatment of s. 38.24 (5r) first 
applies to individuals who commence student teaching in the first semester or 
session that begins after the effective date of this subsection.
SECTION  9343 . Initial applicability; Tourism.
SECTION  9344 . Initial applicability; Transportation.
(1)  N ONCITIZEN  DRIVER[S LICENSES .  The treatment of ss. 66.1011 (1) (by 
SECTION  1167), 66.1201 (2m), 66.1213 (3), 66.1301 (2m), 66.1333 (3) (e) 2., 86.195 
(5) (c), 106.50 (1) (by S ECTION  1692), (1m) (h) (by S ECTION  1694) and (nm), and (5m) 
(f) 1., 106.52 (3) (a) 1., 2., 3., 4., and 5., 111.31 (1) (by S ECTION  1777), (2) (by S ECTION  
1779), and (3) (by S ECTION  1781), 111.321 (by S ECTION  1788), 194.025, 224.77 (1) 
(o), 230.01 (2) (b) (by S ECTION  2361), 230.18 (by S ECTION  2374), 234.29 (by S ECTION  
2400), 343.03 (3m) and (3r), 343.14 (2j), 343.165 (1) (c) and (e), (3) (b) and (c), (4) (b) 
and (d), and (7) (a) (intro.) and (c), 343.17 (3) (a) 16., 343.20 (1) (f), (1m), and (2) (a), 
343.50 (3) (a) and (b), (5) (b), (bm), and (c), (6), (8) (c) 6., and (10) (c), 452.14 (3) (n), 
and 632.35, the renumbering and amendment of s. 343.14 (2) (br) and (es), and the 
creation of s. 343.14 (2) (br) 2. and (es) 2m. first apply to applications received by the 
department of transportation on the effective date of this subsection.
(2)  I GNITION  INTERLOCK  DEVICE  REQUIREMENT  EXPANSION .  The treatment of 
s. 343.301 (1g) (a) 2. a. first applies to violations committed on the effective date of 
this subsection.
SECTION  9345 . Initial applicability; Treasurer.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1897 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9346
SECTION  9346 . Initial applicability; University of Wisconsin Hospitals 
and Clinics Authority; Medical College of Wisconsin.
SECTION  9347 . Initial applicability; University of Wisconsin System.
(1)  N ONRESIDENT  TUITION  EXEMPTION  FOR CERTAIN  TRIBAL  MEMBERS .  The 
treatment of s. 36.27 (2) (ar) first applies to students who enroll for the semester or 
session following the effective date of this subsection.
(2)  N ONRESIDENT  TUITION  EXEMPTION  FOR CERTAIN  UNDOCUMENTED  
INDIVIDUALS .  The treatment of s. 36.27 (2) (cr) first applies to persons who enroll 
for the semester or session following the effective date of this subsection.
(3)  F EE REMISSION  FOR CERTAIN  TRIBAL  MEMBERS .  The treatment of s. 36.27 
(3g) first applies to students who enroll for the semester or session following the 
effective date of this subsection.
(4)  F EE REMISSION  FOR STUDENT  TEACHERS .  The treatment of s. 36.27 (3q) 
first applies to individuals who commence student teaching in the first semester 
that begins after the effective date of this subsection.
SECTION  9348 . Initial applicability; Veterans Affairs.
SECTION  9349 .  Initial applicability; Wisconsin Economic Development 
Corporation.
(1)  E NTERPRISE  ZONE  AND BUSINESS  DEVELOPMENT  TAX CREDIT  WAGE  
THRESHOLDS .  The treatment of ss. 238.308 (1) (b) and 238.399 (1) (as) first applies 
to taxable years beginning on January 1, 2026.
SECTION  9350 . Initial applicability; Workforce Development.
(1)  E MPLOYMENT  DISCRIMINATION ; CONSIDERATION  OF CONVICTION  RECORD .  1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1898 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9350
The treatment of s. 111.335 (3) (ag) first applies to an application for employment 
submitted to an employer on the effective date of this subsection.
(2)  E MPLOYMENT  DISCRIMINATION  DAMAGES .  The treatment of ss. 111.39 (4) 
(d) and (5) (b) and (d), 111.397, 814.04 (intro.) (by S ECTION  3087), and 893.995 first 
applies to acts of employment discrimination, unfair honesty testing, or unfair 
genetic testing committed on the effective date of this subsection.
(3)  F IRST RESPONDER  PTSD COVERAGE .  The treatment of s. 102.17 (9) (a) 1., 
1c., 1e., 1g., and 1p. and (b) (intro.) first applies to injuries reported on the effective 
date of rate changes for worker [s compensation insurance approved by the 
commissioner of insurance under s. 626.13 after the effective date of this 
subsection.
(4)  W ORKER  MISCLASSIFICATION  PENALTIES .  The treatment of ss. 102.82 (2) 
(a), (ab), and (ad), 102.85 (1) and (2) (c), and 108.221 (1) (a) 2. and (2) (b) first applies 
to violations committed on the effective date of this subsection, but does not 
preclude the counting of other violations as prior violations for purposes of 
assessing penalties.
(5)  P REDICTABLE  WORK  SCHEDULES  FOR RETAIL , FOOD  SERVICE , AND CLEANING  
EMPLOYEES .  The treatment of s. 103.035 first applies to an employee who is covered 
by a collective bargaining agreement that contains provisions inconsistent with s. 
103.035 on the day on which the collective bargaining agreement expires or is 
extended, modified, or renewed, whichever occurs first.
(6)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; SSDI PAYMENTS .  The treatment of ss. 108.04 
(2) (h) and (12) (f) 1m., 2m., 3., and 4. and 108.05 (7m) (title), (c), and (d), (9), and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1899 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9350
(10) (intro.) first applies to determinations issued under s. 108.09 on the effective 
date of this subsection.
(7)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; DELETION  OF WAITING  PERIOD .  The treatment 
of ss. 108.02 (26m) and 108.04 (3) and (11) (bm) first applies to benefit years 
beginning on the effective date of this subsection.
(8)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; SUBSTANTIAL  FAULT .  The treatment of ss. 
108.04 (5g) and 108.16 (6m) (a) (by S ECTION  1746 ) first applies with respect to 
determinations issued under s. 108.09 on the effective date of this subsection.
(9)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; WORK  SEARCH  AND REGISTRATION  WAIVERS .  
The treatment of s. 108.04 (2) (a) (intro.) and 3., (b), (bb), (bd), and (bm) first applies 
to initial claims for benefits filed on the effective date of this subsection.
(10)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; QUITS  DUE TO RELOCATIONS .  The treatment 
of s. 108.04 (7) (t) 1. and 2. first applies to determinations issued under s. 108.09 on 
the effective date of this subsection.
(11)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; QUITS  FOR CERTAIN  WORK .  The treatment of 
s. 108.04 (7) (e) first applies to determinations issued under s. 108.09 on the 
effective date of this subsection.
(12)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; SUITABLE  WORK .  The treatment of s. 108.04 
(8) (d) (intro.) and (dm) first applies to determinations issued under s. 108.09 on the 
effective date of this subsection.
(13)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; DRUG  TESTING .  The treatment of ss. 108.04 
(8) (b) and 108.133 (4) (a) first applies to initial claims for benefits filed on the 
effective date of this subsection.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1900 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9350
(14)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; MISCONDUCT .  The treatment of s. 108.04 (5) 
(intro.) and (a) to (g) first applies with respect to determinations issued under s. 
108.09 on the effective date of this subsection.
(15)  P REVAILING  WAGE .  The treatment of ss. 19.36 (12), 66.0129 (5), 66.0903 
(1) (a), (am), (b), (c), (cm), (dr), (em), (f), (g), (hm), (im), and (j), (1m) (b), and (2) to 
(12), 84.41 (3), 84.54, 86.51, 103.005 (12) (a), 103.49, 103.50, 103.503 (1) (a), (e), and 
(g), (2), and (3) (a) 2., 104.001 (4), 106.04, 109.09 (1), 111.322 (2m) (a) (with respect 
to s. 103.50), (b) (with respect to s. 103.50), and (c), 227.01 (13) (t), 229.682 (2), 
229.8275, 946.15, and 978.05 (6) (a) first apply, with respect to a project of public 
works that is subject to bidding, to a project for which the request for bids is issued 
on the effective date of this subsection and, with respect to a project of public works 
that is not subject to bidding, to a project the contract for which is entered into on 
the effective date of this subsection.
(16)  D ISCRIMINATION .  The treatment of ss. 66.0903 (10) (d), 111.322 (2m) (c), 
and 229.8275 first applies to acts of discrimination that occur on the effective date 
of this subsection.
(17)  F AMILY  AND MEDICAL  LEAVE .  The treatment of s. 103.10 (12) (b) first 
applies to a violation that occurs, or that an employee should reasonably have 
known occurred, on the effective date of this subsection.
(18)  L EAVE  BENEFITS  ELIGIBILITY .  The treatment of s. 103.108 (2) first applies 
to a period of family leave, as defined in s. 103.108 (1) (f), or a period of medical 
leave, as defined in s. 103.105 (1) (i), commencing on January 1, 2027.
SECTION  9351 . Initial applicability; Other.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1901 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9351
(1)  P UBLIC  RECORDS  LOCATION  FEE.  The treatment of s. 19.35 (3) (c) first 
applies to a public records request received on the effective date of this subsection.
(2)  R EQUIREMENTS  WHEN  SELLING  OR TRANSFERRING  FIREARMS .  The 
treatment of s. 175.37 (title), the renumbering and amendment of s. 175.37 (1), and 
the creation of s. 175.37 (1) (b) first apply to sales and transfers that occur on the 
effective date of this subsection.
(3)  L OST OR STOLEN  FIREARMS .  The treatment of s. 175.36 (1) (a) first applies 
to discoveries of stolen or lost firearms made on the effective date of this subsection.
(4)  R EQUIREMENTS  WHEN  TRANSFERRING  FIREARM .  The creation of s. 175.37 
(1) (c) first applies to sales and transfers that occur on the effective date of this 
subsection.
(5)  S ELF-ASSIGNED  FIREARM  EXCLUSION .  The treatment of s. 175.35 (1) (at) (by 
SECTION  2275 ) and (2g) (c) 4. a. and b. and the creation of s. 175.355 first apply to 
transfers of firearms on the effective date of this subsection.
(6)  R EAL ESTATE  CONDITION  REPORTS ; DISCLOSURES  RELATED  TO FLOODING .  
The treatment of of ss. 709.03 (form) A7., F4., G1., and G1m. and 709.033 (form) 
A7., E3., F3m., and F3n. first applies to a report that is furnished on the effective 
date of this subsection.
(7)  E XPUNGEMENT .  The treatment of s. 973.015 (1m) (a) 3. a., c., cg., cr., and d. 
and 4., (b), and (c), the renumbering and amendment of s. 973.015 (1m) (a) 1., and 
the creation of s. 973.015 (1m) (a) 1. a. and b. first apply to any conviction for which 
sentencing has occurred but for which the record has not been ordered expunged on 
the effective date of this subsection.
(8)  C RIME  VICTIM  SERVICES  SURCHARGE .  The treatment of s. 973.0452 (1) first 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1902 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9351
applies to sentences, periods of probation, or civil forfeitures imposed on the 
effective date of this subsection.
(9)  C OLLECTIVE  BARGAINING ; EMPLOYEE  RIGHTS .  The treatment of ss. 20.425 
(1) (i), 20.505 (1) (ks), 20.921 (1) (a) 2., 40.51 (7) (a), 46.2895 (8) (a) 1., 109.03 (1) (b), 
111.70 (1) (a), (f), (fd), (fm), (n), and (p), (3) (a) 3., 5., 6., and 9., (3g), (4) (bm) (title), 
(cg) (title), 1., 2., 3., 4., 5., 6. a., 7r. d., e., f., and h., and 8m., (d) 1., 2. a., and 3. a., b., 
and c., (mb) (intro.), (mbb), (mc) (intro.), 6., 7., and 8., and (p), and (7m) (c) 1. a., 
111.81 (1), (1b), (1d), (7) (ag), (ar), and (at), (8), (8p), (9), (9b), (9g), (12) (intro.), 
(12m), (15m), and (16), 111.815 (1), 111.817, 111.825 (1) (intro.), (1r) (am) and (ar), 
(1t) (am) and (ar), (3), and (5), 111.83 (1), (3) (a) and (b), and (4), 111.84 (1) (d) and 
(f) and (2) (c), 111.85 (1), (2), and (4), 111.86 (2), 111.88 (1), 111.90 (1) and (2), 
111.91 (1w), (2) (intro.), (3) (intro.), (3q), and (4), 111.92 (3) (a) and (b), 111.93 (3) (a) 
and (b), 118.22 (4), 118.245 (1), 118.42 (3) (a) 4. and (5), 120.12 (15), 120.18 (1) (gm), 
and 230.10 (2), the renumbering of s. 111.70 (4) (bm), the renumbering and 
amendment of ss. 111.70 (2) and 111.82, and the creation of ss. 111.70 (2) (b) and (4) 
(bm) 2. and 111.82 (2) first apply to employees who are covered by a collective 
bargaining agreement under ch. 111 that contains provisions inconsistent with 
those sections on the day on which the agreement expires or is terminated, 
extended, modified, or renewed, whichever occurs first.
SECTION  9400 . Effective dates; general.   Except as otherwise provided in 
SECTIONS  9401 to 9451 of this act, this act takes effect on July 1, 2025, or on the day 
after publication, whichever is later.
SECTION  9401 . Effective dates; Administration.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1903 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9401
(1)  S TATE  HOLIDAYS ; JUNETEENTH  AND VETERANS  DAY.  The treatment of s. 
230.35 (4) (a) 3m., 5m., and 10., (c), and (d) (intro.) takes effect on the January 1 
after publication.
(2)  P AYMENTS  FOR MUNICIPAL  SERVICES .  The treatment of s. 25.491 (1) (c) 3. 
takes effect on July 1, 2026.
(3)  A LTERNATIVES  TO PROSECUTION  AND INCARCERATION  GRANT  PROGRAM .  
The treatment of ss. 16.075 and 20.505 (1) (cb) takes effect on January 1, 2027.
(4)  G RANTS  FOR MILWAUKEE  COUNTY  HOUSING  FIRST.  The repeal of s. 20.505 
(7) (fe) takes effect on July 1, 2027.
SECTION  9402 . Effective dates; Agriculture, Trade and Consumer 
Protection.
SECTION  9403 . Effective dates; Arts Board.
SECTION  9404 . Effective dates; Building Commission.
SECTION  9405 . Effective dates; Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention 
Board.
SECTION  9406 . Effective dates; Children and Families.
(1)  F OSTER  CARE  AND KINSHIP  CARE  RATES .  The treatment of ss. 48.57 (3m) 
(am) (intro.) and (3n) (am) (intro.) and 48.62 (4) (a) takes effect on January 1, 2026, 
or on the day after publication, whichever is later.
(2)  E XPANDING  ELIGIBILITY  FOR SUBSIDIZED  GUARDIANSHIPS  AND KINSHIP  CARE  
PAYMENTS .  Notwithstanding s. 227.265, the repeal of s. DCF 55.02 (5g) (b) 2., Wis. 
Adm. Code, takes effect on the day after publication.
(3)  B ENEFITS  ELIGIBILITY  SCREENING .  The treatment of s. 48.49 takes effect on 
July 1, 2027.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1904 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9406
(4)  C HILD  SUPPORT  ASSIGNMENT  AND REFERRALS .  The treatment of ss. 20.437 
(2) (r), 46.10 (1) and (14) (e) 1., 48.33 (4) (b) and (4m), 48.335 (3r), 48.355 (2) (b) 4., 
48.357 (5m), 48.36 (4) (a), 48.363 (2), 48.645 (3), 49.345 (1) and (14) (e) 1., 301.12 (1) 
and (14) (e) 1., 767.001 (1) (m), 767.511 (1m) (hm), 767.521 (intro.), 767.55 (3) (a) 2., 
767.57 (1m) (c), (2), and (4), 767.59 (1), (1c) (a) (intro.), and (2) (c), 767.77 (1), 767.78 
(1), 767.87 (6) (a), 780.01 (5), 893.415 (2), 938.33 (3) (intro.), (a), and (b), (4) (b), and 
(4m), 938.335 (3r), 938.355 (2) (b) 4., 938.357 (5m) (a) and (b), 938.36 (4) (a), and 
938.363 (2) and S ECTION  9106 (4) of this act take effect on July 1, 2026.
(5)  C HILD  SUPPORT  DEBT  REDUCTION .  The treatment of s. 49.226 takes effect 
on the first day of the 7th month beginning after publication.
SECTION  9407 .  Effective dates; Circuit Courts.
(1)  A LTERNATIVES  TO PROSECUTION  AND INCARCERATION  GRANT  PROGRAM .  
The treatment of ss. 758.19 (5) (g) and 961.385 (2) (cm) 3. b. takes effect on January 
1, 2027.
(2)  C IRCUIT  COURT  BRANCHES .  The treatment of s. 753.06 (8) (a) (by S ECTION  
3011) takes effect on August 1, 2026.
SECTION  9408 . Effective dates; Corrections.
(1)  A GE OF ADULT  JURISDICTION .  The treatment of ss. 48.02 (1d) and (2), 
48.44, 48.45 (1) (a) and (am) and (3), 118.163 (4), 125.07 (4) (d) and (e) 1., 125.085 (3) 
(bt), 165.83 (1) (c) 1. and 2., 301.12 (2m) and (14) (a), 302.31 (7), 938.02 (1) and 
(10m), 938.12 (2), 938.18 (2), 938.183 (3), 938.255 (1) (intro.), 938.34 (8), 938.343 (2), 
938.344 (3), 938.35 (1m), 938.355 (4) (b) and (4m) (a), 938.39, 938.44, 938.45 (1) (a) 
and (3), 938.48 (4m) (title), (a), and (b) and (14), 938.57 (3) (title), (a) (intro.), 1., and 
3., and (b), 946.50 (intro.), 948.01 (1), 948.11 (2) (am) (intro.), 948.45 (1), 948.60 (2) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1905 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9408
(d), 948.61 (4), 961.455 (title), (1), and (2), 961.46, 961.573 (2), 961.574 (2), 961.575 
(1), (2), and (3), and 990.01 (3) and (20), subch. IX (title) of ch. 48, and subch. IX 
(title) of ch. 938 and S ECTION  9308 (1) of this act take effect on January 1, 2026.
(2)  C ONTRACT  PAYMENTS  FOR PLACEMENT  OF JUVENILES .  The repeal of s. 
20.410 (3) (ab) takes effect on July 1, 2029.
SECTION  9409 . Effective dates; Court of Appeals.
SECTION  9410 . Effective dates; District Attorneys.
SECTION  9411 . Effective dates; Educational Communications Board.
SECTION  9412 . Effective dates; Elections Commission.
SECTION  9413 . Effective dates; Employee Trust Funds.
SECTION  9414 . Effective dates; Employment Relations Commission.
SECTION  9415 . Effective dates; Ethics Commission.
SECTION  9416 . Effective dates; Financial Institutions.
SECTION  9417 . Effective dates; Governor.
SECTION  9418 . Effective dates; Health and Educational Facilities 
Authority.
SECTION  9419 . Effective dates; Health Services.
(1)  M EDICAID  EXPANSION .  The treatment of ss. 20.435 (4) (jw), 49.45 (23) and 
(23b), 49.471 (1) (cr), (4) (a) 4. b. and 8., and (4g), and 49.686 (3) (d) and S ECTION  
9119 (1) of this act take effect on July 1, 2025.
(2)  H EALTHCARE  OWNERSHIP  AND TRANSPARENCY .  The creation of subch. IX of 
ch. 150, ss. 150.99, 150.992, 150.994, and 150.996 takes effect on January 1, 2027.
(3)  T RAUMA  RESILIENCE  GRANT .  The repeal of s. 46.48 (21) takes effect on July 
1, 2027.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1906 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9420
SECTION  9420 . Effective dates; Higher Educational Aids Board.
SECTION  9421 . Effective dates; Historical Society.
SECTION  9422 . Effective dates; Housing and Economic Development 
Authority.
SECTION  9423 . Effective dates; Insurance.
(1)  C OVERAGE  OF INFERTILITY  SERVICES .  The treatment of ss. 609.74 and 
632.895 (15m) and S ECTION  9323 (1) of this act take effect on the first day of the 4th 
month beginning after publication.
(2)  C OVERAGE  OF INDIVIDUALS  WITH  PREEXISTING  CONDITIONS , ESSENTIAL  
HEALTH  BENEFITS , AND PREVENTIVE  SERVICES .  The treatment of ss. 632.728, 
632.746 (1) (a) and (b), (2) (a), (c), (d), and (e), (3) (a) and (d) 1., 2., and 3., (5), and (8) 
(a) (intro.), 632.748 (2), 632.76 (2) (a) and (ac) 1. and 2., 632.795 (4) (a), 632.895 (8) 
(d), (13m), (14) (a) 1. i., j., and k. to o., (b), (c), and (d) 3., (14m), (16m) (b), and (17) (b) 
2. and (c), and 632.897 (11) (a) and S ECTION  9323 (2) of this act take effect on the 
first day of the 4th month beginning after publication.
(3)  C OVERAGE  OF OVER -THE-COUNTER  ORAL  CONTRACEPTIVES .  The treatment 
of s. 632.895 (17) (b) 1m. and S ECTION  9323 (3) of this act take effect on the first day 
of the 4th month beginning after publication.
(4)  Q UALIFIED  TREATMENT  TRAINEE  COVERAGE .  The treatment of ss. 40.51 (8) 
and (8m), 66.0137 (4), 120.13 (2) (g), 185.983 (1) (intro.), 609.713, and 632.87 (7) and 
SECTION  9323 (4) of this act take effect on the first day of the 4th month beginning 
after publication.
(5)  D ENTAL  THERAPIST  COVERAGE .  The treatment of ss. 609.718 and 632.87 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1907 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9423
(1), (4), and (4e) and S ECTION  9323 (5) of this act take effect on the first day of the 
4th month beginning after publication.
(6)  C OST-SHARING  CAP ON INSULIN .  The treatment of ss. 609.83 and 632.895 
(6) (title), the renumbering and amendment of s. 632.895 (6), and the creation of s. 
632.895 (6) (b) and S ECTION  9323 (6) take effect on the first day of the 4th month 
beginning after publication.
(7)  A PPLICATION  OF MANUFACTURER  DISCOUNTS .  The treatment of s. 632.862 
and S ECTION  9323 (7) take effect on the first day of the 4th month beginning after 
publication.
(8)  S UBSTANCE  ABUSE  COUNSELOR  COVERAGE .  The treatment of ss. 609.714 
and 632.87 (8) and S ECTION  9323 (8) of this act take effect on the first day of the 4th 
month beginning after publication.
(9)  P RESCRIPTION  DRUG  AFFORDABILITY  REVIEW  BOARD .  The treatment of ss. 
15.07 (3) (bm) 7., 15.735, 601.78, 601.785, and 601.79 and subch. VI (title) of ch. 601 
and S ECTION  9123 (2) of this act take effect on the first day of the 7th month 
beginning after publication.
(10)  C OVERAGE  OF EMERGENCY  AMBULANCE  SERVICES .  The treatment of ss. 
609.825 and 632.851 and S ECTION  9323 (10) of this act take effect on the first day of 
the 4th month beginning after publication.
(11)  I NPATIENT  MENTAL  HEALTH  PRIOR  AUTHORIZATION .  The treatment of ss. 
609.823 and 632.891 and S ECTION  9323 (11) of this act take effect on the first day of 
the 4th month beginning after publication.
(12)  S PECIAL  ENROLLMENT  PERIOD  FOR PREGNANCY .  The treatment of ss. 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1908 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9423
609.40 and 632.7498 takes effect on the first day of the 4th month beginning after 
publication.
SECTION  9424 . Effective dates; Investment Board.
SECTION  9425 . Effective dates; Joint Committee on Finance.
SECTION  9426 . Effective dates; Judicial Commission.
SECTION  9427 . Effective dates; Justice.
(1)  T RANSFERS  OF FIREARMS .  The treatment of ss. 175.33, 175.35 (title), (1) 
(at) (by S ECTION  2276 ) and (br), (2) (intro.), (a), (b), (bm), (c), and (cm) (intro.), (2g) 
(a), (b) 1. and 2., and (c) 4. c. (by S ECTION  2289 ), (2k) (ar) 2., (c) 2. a. and b., (g), and 
(h), (2L), (2t) (a), (b), and (c), and (3) (b) 2., 176.60 (7) (d) and (15) (b) 4. b., 938.341, 
941.29 (1m) (dm), (dn), and (do), 971.17 (1g), and 973.176 (1), the repeal of s. 
175.355, the renumbering of s. 175.35 (2) (d) and (2j), the renumbering and 
amendment of s. 175.35 (2i), the amendment of s. 20.455 (2) (gr), and the creation of 
s. 175.35 (2i) (b) 2. and (2j) (b) and S ECTION  9327 (2) of this act take effect on the 
first day of the 7th month beginning after publication.
(2)  A LTERNATIVES  TO PROSECUTION  AND INCARCERATION  AND DRUG  COURT  
GRANT  PROGRAMS .  The treatment of ss. 20.455 (2) (eg), (em), (jd), (kn), and (kv), 
20.505 (1) (id) 5., 46.47 (1) (b), 165.25 (10m) (intro.), 165.95 (title), (1) (ac), (2), (2m), 
(2r), (3) (intro.), (a), (ag), (b), (bd), (cm) 2., (d), (e), (g), (h), (i), (j), and (k), (5) (a), (b), 
and (bg), (5m), (5p) (a) and (b), (6), (7), (7m), (8), (9), and (10), 165.955, 961.41 (5) (c) 
2., and 973.043 (3) take effect on January 1, 2027.
(3)  R EPEAL  OF SUNSET  FOR POSITIONS  IN OFFICE  OF SCHOOL  SAFETY .  The 
repeal and recreation of s. 20.455 (2) (gr) takes effect on October 1, 2025, or on the 
day after publication, whichever is later.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1909 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9428
SECTION  9428 . Effective dates; Legislature.
SECTION  9429 . Effective dates; Lieutenant Governor.
SECTION  9430 . Effective dates; Local Government.
(1)  W ORKFORCE  HOUSING  INITIATIVES .  The treatment of s. 66.10012 takes 
effect on January 1, 2026.
(2)  R EGISTER  OF DEEDS  RECORDING  FEES ; LAND  INFORMATION  PROGRAM .  The 
treatment of ss. 16.967 (7m) (b), 59.43 (2) (ag) 1. and (e), and 59.72 (5) (a) and (b) 
(intro.) and S ECTION  9330 (3) of this act take effect on the first day of the 4th month 
beginning after publication.
SECTION  9431 . Effective dates; Military Affairs.
SECTION  9432 .  Effective dates; Natural Resources.
(1)  T RANSFERS  TO THE CAPITAL  IMPROVEMENT  FUND .  The treatment of s. 
20.370 (5) (hq) and (hr) takes effect on July 1, 2026.
(2)  I NCREASE  OF HUNTING , FISHING , AND TRAPPING  APPROVAL  FEES .  The 
treatment of s. 29.563 (2) (a) 1., 2., 4., 5., 5g., 5m., 6., 8., 8m., 8r., 8t., and 9., (b) 1., 2., 
3., 3m., 4., 6., 6m., 7., and 8., (c) 1. and 1m., (d) 1. and 2., (e) 1., 2., and 3., (f), and (g), 
(2g) (intro.), (3) (a) 1., 2., 3., 4., 4m., 5., 5m., 7., 7m., 9., and 10., (b) 1., 2., 3., 4., 5., 
5m., 6., and 7., (c) 1. and 2., and (cm) 1. and 2., (4) (a) 1., 1m., 2., 2m., 2s., 3., and 3m. 
and (b) 1., 1m., 2., 2m., 2s., and 3., (5) (a) 1. and 2. and (b) 1., 2., and 3., (6) (a) 1., 
1m., 1s., 2., and 3., (am), (b) 1., 2., and 3., (c), and (d), (7) (a) 1., 2., 3., and 4., (b) 1. 
and 2., and (c) 1., 3. a., b., c., d., e., and f., 4., 5., 5g., 6., 7., and 10., (8) (a) and (b), (10) 
(a) 1., 3., 4., 5., and 6. and (b) 1., 2., 3., 4., 5., and 6., and (11) (a) 2. takes effect on 
March 1, 2026.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1910 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9432
(3)  A NNUAL  4TH GRADE  PASS .  The treatment of s. 27.01 (9) (bg) takes effect on 
January 1, 2026.
(4)  C OMMERCIAL  VESSELS  SUBJECT  TO FEDERAL  VESSEL  INCIDENTAL  
DISCHARGE  ACT.  The treatment of ss. 20.370 (4) (aj), 283.35 (1m), and 299.65, the 
renumbering of s. 299.66, and the creation of s. 299.66 (2) take effect on the date 
specified in the notice published in the Wisconsin Administrative Register under 
SECTION  9132 (7) of this act.
(5)  E NVIRONMENTAL  IMPACTS  TO COVERED  COMMUNITIES .
(a)  Except as provided in par. (b), the treatment of s. 23.405 takes effect on the 
first day of the 6th month beginning after publication.
(b)  The treatment of s. 23.405 (1) (a) and (2) takes effect on first day of the 4th 
month beginning after publication.
SECTION  9433 . Effective dates; Public Defender Board.
SECTION  9434 . Effective dates; Public Instruction.
(1)  T EACHER  LICENSURE  IN CERTAIN  PRIVATE  SCHOOLS .  The treatment of s. 
118.19 (1), (1b), (1c) (b) (intro.), and (3) (b) takes effect on July 1, 2028.
SECTION  9435 . Effective dates; Public Lands, Board of Commissioners 
of.
SECTION  9436 . Effective dates; Public Service Commission.
(1)  I NTERNET  SERVICE  PROVIDER  REGISTRATION  REQUIREMENT .  The treatment 
of s. 196.5048 takes effect on January 1, 2026.
SECTION  9437 . Effective dates; Revenue.
(1)  D IAPERS  AND FEMININE  HYGIENE  PRODUCTS .  The treatment of ss. 77.51 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1911 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9437
(3h), (3pq), and (4f), 77.52 (13), 77.53 (10), and 77.54 (78) takes effect on the first 
day of the 3rd month beginning after publication.
(2)  S ALES  AND USE TAX EXEMPTION  FOR FARM -RAISED  DEER .  The treatment of 
s. 77.54 (62) takes effect on the first day of the 3rd month beginning after 
publication.
(3)  G UN SAFES , TRIGGER  LOCKS , AND BARREL  LOCKS .  The treatment of ss. 77.52 
(13), 77.53 (10), and 77.54 (76) takes effect on the first day of the 3rd month 
beginning after publication.
(4)  B REASTFEEDING  EQUIPMENT .  The treatment of ss. 77.52 (13), 77.53 (10), 
and 77.54 (77) takes effect on the first day of the 3rd month beginning after 
publication.
(5)  P RAIRIE  AND WETLAND  COUNSELING  SERVICES .  The treatment of ss. 77.51 
(11d) and (17g) and 77.52 (2) (a) 20. and (2m) (a) and (c) takes effect on the first day 
of the 3rd month beginning after publication.
(6)  L ITTLE  CIGARS .  The treatment of ss. 139.44 (4), 139.75 (4t) and (12), 
139.76 (1), (1p), and (1t), and 139.78 (1), (1p), and (1t), the renumbering of s. 139.83, 
and the creation of s. 139.83 (2) take effect on the first day of the 3rd month 
beginning after publication.
(7)  V APOR  PRODUCTS .  The treatment of subch. III (title) of ch. 139 and ss. 
139.76 (1m), 139.77 (1), and 139.78 (1m), the renumbering and amendment of s. 
139.75 (14), and the creation of s. 139.75 (14) (b) and (c) take effect on the first day 
of the 3rd month beginning after publication.
(8)  E NERGY  SYSTEMS .  The treatment of s. 77.54 (56) (a), (ad), and (b) takes 
effect on the first day of the 3rd month beginning after publication.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1912 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9437
(9)  S ALES  TAX EXEMPTION  FOR RESIDENTIAL  ELECTRICITY  AND NATURAL  GAS.  
The treatment of s. 77.54 (30) (a) 2. takes effect on the first day of the 3rd month 
beginning after publication.
(10)  O VER-THE-COUNTER  DRUGS .  The treatment of ss. 77.51 (9rm) and 77.54 
(14) (g) takes effect on the first day of the 3rd month beginning after publication.
(11)  D ATE OF COMPUTER  AID PAYMENTS .  The treatment of s. 79.095 (4) (c) 
takes effect on January 1, 2026.
SECTION  9438 . Effective dates; Safety and Professional Services.
(1)  R ENEWAL  DATES .  The treatment of ss. 20.165 (1) (jm), 106.30 (2), 227.01 
(13) (zxm), 440.01 (1) (dL) and (dm), 440.03 (14) (c) and (15), 440.032 (5), 440.08 (2) 
(title), (a) (intro.), 1n., 2n., and 1. to 72., (ar), (b), (c), (d), and (e), (2o) (title) and (b), 
and (4) (a), 440.09 (3) (a), 440.26 (3) and (5m) (b), 440.313 (1), 440.415 (2) (a), 440.71 
(3), 440.88 (4), 440.905 (2), 440.91 (1) (c), (1m) (c), and (4), 440.92 (1) (c), 440.972 (2), 
440.974 (2), 440.98 (6), 440.983 (1), 440.992 (6), 440.9935, 441.01 (7) (a) (intro.) (by 
SECTION  2729) and 1. and (b), 441.06 (3) (by S ECTION  2734), 441.10 (6), 442.083 (1) 
and (2) (a), 443.015 (1e), 443.07 (6), 443.08 (3) (b), 443.10 (2) (e) and (5), 445.06 (1), 
445.07 (1) and (2), 445.095 (1) (c), 445.105 (3), 446.02 (1) (b) and (4), 446.025 (3) (b), 
446.026 (3) (b), 447.05 (1) (a), 447.055 (1) (a) and (b) 1. and 2. and (3), 447.056 (1) 
(intro.), (2), and (3), 447.058 (2) (b), 448.07 (1) (a), 448.13 (title), (1) (a) 1. and 2., and 
(1m), 448.40 (1) and (2) (e), 448.55 (2), 448.65 (2) (intro.), 448.665, 448.86 (2), 
448.9545 (1) (a) and (b) (intro.), 448.955 (1), (2) (a), and (3) (a), 448.956 (1) (c), 
448.967 (2), 448.9703 (3) (a), 448.9706 (2), 448.974 (2) (am) 1., 449.06 (1) and (2m), 
450.08 (1) and (2) (a) and (b), 450.085 (1), 451.04 (4), 452.10 (2), 452.12 (1) and (5) 
(a), 452.132 (2) (c), 454.06 (8), 454.08 (9), 454.23 (5), 454.25 (9), 455.06 (1) (a) and 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1913 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9438
(b), 455.065 (7), 456.07 (title), (1), (2), (3), and (5), 457.20 (2), 457.22 (2), 458.085 (3), 
458.09 (3), 458.11, 458.13, 458.33 (5), 459.09 (1) (intro.) and (b), 459.095 (1), 459.24 
(5) (intro.) and (b) and (5m) (a) 1., 460.07 (2) (intro.), 460.10 (1) (a), 462.05 (1), 
466.04 (3) (a) (intro.), 470.045 (3) (b), 470.07, and 480.08 (5), the renumbering and 
amendment of ss. 445.07 (3), 446.025 (3) (a), and 446.026 (3) (a), the amendment of 
s. 441.15 (3) (b), and the creation of ss. 445.07 (3) (b), 446.025 (3) (a) 2., and 446.026 
(3) (a) 2. take effect on the first day of the 7th month beginning after publication.
(2)  A DVANCED  PRACTICE  REGISTERED  NURSES .  The treatment of ss. 29.193 
(1m) (a) 2. (intro.), (2) (b) 2., (c) 3., (cd) 2. b. and c., and (e), and (3) (a), 46.03 (44), 
50.01 (1b), 50.08 (2), 50.09 (1) (a) (intro.), (f) 1., (h), and (k), 50.36 (3s), 50.49 (1) (b) 
(intro.), 51.41 (1d) (b) 4., 70.47 (8) (intro.), 77.54 (14) (f) 3. and 4., 97.59, 106.30 (1), 
118.15 (3) (a), 118.25 (1) (a), 118.29 (1) (e), 118.2915 (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (c), and 
(6) (a) (intro.), 2., and 3., 118.2925 (1) (b), (3), (4) (c), and (5), 118.294 (1) (a) and 
(am), (2), and (4) (a), 146.615 (1) (a), 146.82 (3) (a), 146.89 (1) (r) 1., 3., and 8. and 
(6), 154.01 (1g), 155.01 (1g) (b), 251.01 (1c), 252.01 (1c), 252.07 (8) (a) 2. and (9) (c), 
252.10 (7), 252.11 (2), (4), (5), (7), and (10), 252.15 (3m) (d) 11. b. and 13., (5g) (c), 
(5m) (d) 2. and (e) 2. and 3., and (7m) (intro.) and (b), 252.16 (3) (c) (intro.), 252.17 
(3) (c) (intro.), 253.07 (4) (d), 253.115 (1) (f), (4), and (7) (a) (intro.), 253.15 (1) (em) 
and (2), 255.06 (1) (d) and (f) 2. and (2) (d), 255.07 (1) (d), 257.01 (5) (a) and (b), 
341.14 (1a), (1e) (a), (1m), and (1q), 343.16 (5) (a), 343.51 (1), 343.62 (4) (a) 4., 440.03 
(13) (b) 3., 39m., and 42., 440.077 (1) (a) and (2) (c), 440.094 (1) (c) 1. and (2) (a) 
(intro.), 440.981 (1), 440.982 (1), 440.987 (2), 441.001 (1c), (3c), (3g), (3n), (3r), (3w), 
and (5), 441.01 (3), (4), and (7) (a) (intro.) (by S ECTION  2730 ) and (c), 441.06 (title), 
(3) (by S ECTION  2735 ), (4), and (7), 441.07 (1g) (intro.), (a), (c), and (e), 441.09, 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1914 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9438
441.092, 441.10 (7), 441.11 (title), (1), (2), and (3), 441.14, 441.15 (by S ECTION  
2751 ), 441.16, 441.18 (2) (a) (intro.) and (b) and (3), 441.19, 448.03 (2) (a), 448.035 
(1) (a), (2), (3), and (4), 448.56 (1) and (1m) (b), 448.62 (2m), 448.67 (2), 448.956 
(1m), 450.01 (1m) and (16) (h) 2. and (hr) 2., 450.03 (1) (e), 450.11 (1g) (b), (1i) (a) 1. 
and (b) 2. b., (7) (b), and (8) (e), 450.13 (5) (b), 450.135 (7) (b), 462.04, 655.001 (1), 
(1g), (7t), and (9), 655.002 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (em) and (2) (a) and (b), 
655.003 (1) and (3), 655.005 (2) (a) and (b), 655.23 (5m), 655.27 (3) (a) 4. and (b) 2m., 
655.275 (2) and (5) (b) 2., 895.478 (3m), 961.01 (19) (a), and 961.395, the 
renumbering and amendment of s. 253.13 (1), the creation of s. 253.13 (1) (a), and 
SECTION  9138 (3) of this act take effect on the first day of the 13th month beginning 
after publication.
SECTION  9439 . Effective dates; Secretary of State.
SECTION  9440 . Effective dates; State Fair Park Board.
SECTION  9441 . Effective dates; Supreme Court.
SECTION  9442 . Effective dates; Technical College System.
SECTION  9443 . Effective dates; Tourism.
SECTION  9444 . Effective dates; Transportation.
(1)  N ONCITIZEN  DRIVER[S LICENSES .  The treatment of ss. 66.1011 (1) (by 
SECTION  1167), 66.1201 (2m), 66.1213 (3), 66.1301 (2m), 66.1333 (3) (e) 2., 86.195 
(5) (c), 106.50 (1) (by S ECTION  1692), (1m) (h) (by S ECTION  1694) and (nm), and (5m) 
(f) 1., 106.52 (3) (a) 1., 2., 3., 4., and 5., 111.31 (1) (by S ECTION  1777), (2) (by S ECTION  
1779), and (3) (by S ECTION  1781), 111.321 (by S ECTION  1788), 194.025, 224.77 (1) 
(o), 230.01 (2) (b) (by S ECTION  2361), 230.18 (by S ECTION  2374), 234.29 (by S ECTION  
2400), 343.03 (3m) and (3r), 343.14 (2j), 343.165 (1) (c) and (e), (3) (b) and (c), (4) (b) 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1915 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9444
and (d), and (7) (a) (intro.) and (c), 343.17 (3) (a) 16., 343.20 (1) (f), (1m), and (2) (a), 
343.50 (3) (a) and (b), (5) (b), (bm), and (c), (6), (8) (c) 6., and (10) (c), 452.14 (3) (n), 
and 632.35, the renumbering and amendment of s. 343.14 (2) (br) and (es), the 
creation of s. 343.14 (2) (br) 2. and (es) 2m., and S ECTION  9344 (1) of this act take 
effect on the first day of the 4th month beginning after publication.
SECTION  9445 . Effective dates; Treasurer.
SECTION  9446 . Effective dates; University of Wisconsin Hospitals and 
Clinics Authority; Medical College of Wisconsin.
SECTION  9447 . Effective dates; University of Wisconsin System.
SECTION  9448 . Effective dates; Veterans Affairs.
SECTION  9449 . Effective dates; Wisconsin Economic Development 
Corporation.
SECTION  9450 . Effective dates; Workforce Development.
(1)  E MPLOYMENT  DISCRIMINATION ; CONSIDERATION  OF CONVICTION  RECORD .  
The treatment of s. 111.335 (3) (ag) and S ECTION  9350 (1) of this act take effect on 
the first day of the 6th month beginning after publication.
(2)  P REDICTABLE  WORK  SCHEDULES  FOR RETAIL , FOOD  SERVICE , AND CLEANING  
EMPLOYEES .  The treatment of s. 103.035 takes effect on the first day of the 6th 
month beginning after publication.
(3)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; SSDI PAYMENTS .  The treatment of ss. 108.04 
(2) (h) and (12) (f) 1m., 2m., 3., and 4. and 108.05 (7m) (title), (c), and (d), (9), and 
(10) (intro.) and S ECTION  9350 (6) of this act take effect on the first Sunday of the 
7th month beginning after publication.
(4)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; DELETION  OF WAITING  PERIOD .  The treatment 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
242025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1916 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9450
of ss. 108.02 (26m) and 108.04 (3) and (11) (bm) and S ECTION  9350 (7) of this act 
take effect on the Sunday after publication.
(5)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE  AND WORKER[S COMPENSATION ; SUBSTANTIAL  
FAULT .  The treatment of ss. 102.43 (9) (e), 108.04 (5g), 108.14 (8n) (e) (by S ECTION  
1742 ), 108.141 (7) (a) (by S ECTION  1744 ), and 108.16 (6m) (a) (by S ECTION  1746 ) 
and S ECTION  9350 (8) of this act take effect on January 4, 2026.
(6)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; WORK  SEARCH  AND REGISTRATION  WAIVERS .  
The treatment of s. 108.04 (2) (a) (intro.) and 3., (b), (bb), (bd), and (bm) and 
SECTION  9350 (9) of this act take effect on the Sunday after publication.
(7)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; QUITS  DUE TO RELOCATIONS .  The treatment 
of s. 108.04 (7) (t) 1. and 2. and S ECTION  9350 (10) of this act take effect on the first 
Sunday of the 2nd month beginning after publication.
(8)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; QUIT  EXCEPTION .  The treatment of s. 108.04 
(7) (e) and S ECTION  9350 (11) of this act take effect on the first Sunday of the 2nd 
month beginning after publication.
(9)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; SUITABLE  WORK .  The treatment of s. 108.04 
(8) (d) (intro.) and (dm) and S ECTION  9350 (12) of this act take effect on the first 
Sunday of the 2nd month beginning after publication.
(10)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; DRUG  TESTING .  The treatment of ss. 108.04 
(8) (a) and (b), 108.14 (8n) (e) (by S ECTION  1741 ), 108.141 (7) (a) (by S ECTION  1743 ), 
108.16 (6m) (a) (by S ECTION  1745 ), and 108.19 (1s) (a) 5. and the repeal of s. 108.133 
and S ECTION  9350 (13) of this act take effect on July 6, 2025, or the first Sunday 
after publication, whichever is later.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
232025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 50- 1917 - LRB-2080/1
ALL:all
SECTION  9450
(11)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; ELECTRONIC  COMMUNICATIONS .  The 
treatment of s. 108.14 (2e) takes effect on the date specified in the notice published 
in the Wisconsin administrative register under S ECTION  9150 (5) of this act.
(12)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE ; ELECTRONIC  FILING .  The treatment of ss. 
108.17 (2), (2b), (2g), and (7), 108.185, 108.205 (1m) and (2), and 108.22 (1) (ac), (ad) 
1., and (af) takes effect on January 1, 2027.
(13)  U NEMPLOYMENT  INSURANCE  AND WORKER[S COMPENSATION ; MISCONDUCT .  
The treatment of s. 108.04 (5) (intro.) and (a) to (g) and S ECTION  9350 (14) of this act 
take effect on January 4, 2026.
(14)  P AID FAMILY  AND MEDICAL  LEAVE  BENEFITS .  The treatment of s. 103.08 
takes effect on January 1, 2027.
SECTION  9451 .  Effective dates; Other.
(1)  R EAL ESTATE  CONDITION  REPORTS ; DISCLOSURES  RELATED  TO FLOODING .  
The treatment of of ss. 709.03 (form) A7., F4., G1., and G1m. and 709.033 (form) 
A7., E3., F3m., and F3n. and S ECTION  9151 (3) and S ECTION  9351 (6) takes effect on 
the first day of the 7th month beginning after publication.
(2)  E XPUNGEMENT .  The treatment of ss. 111.335 (3) (a), (ah), and (g) and (4) 
(b), (c) 1. (intro.), (e), and (f) 1., 950.04 (1v) (g), 973.015 (1b), (1m) (a) 3. a., c., cg., cr., 
and d. and 4., (b), and (c), and (4), and 973.25 (1) (a), the renumbering and 
amendment of s. 973.015 (1m) (a) 1., the creation of s. 973.015 (1m) (a) 1. a. and b., 
and S ECTION  9351 (7) of this act take effect on the first day of the 13th month 
beginning after publication.
(END)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23