2025 - 2026  LEGISLATURELRB-0507/1
JPC:emw
2025 SENATE BILL 4
January 24, 2025 - Introduced by Senators CABRAL -GUEVARA , KAPENGA , NASS and 
TESTIN , cosponsored by Representatives DUCHOW , BROOKS , ARMSTRONG , 
DITTRICH , HURD, MURPHY , O'C ONNOR , RODRIGUEZ  and WICHGERS . Referred to 
Committee on Health.
AN ACT to create  146.78 and 600.01 (1) (b) 13. of the statutes; relating to:  
agreements for direct primary care.
Analysis by the Legislative Reference Bureau
This bill exempts valid direct primary care agreements from the application of 
insurance law.  A “direct primary care agreement,” as defined in the bill, is a 
contract between a health care provider that provides primary care services under 
the provider’s scope of practice and an individual patient or the patient’s legal 
representative or employer in which the health care provider agrees to provide 
primary care services to the patient for an agreed-upon subscription fee and period 
of time.
A valid direct primary care agreement is in writing and satisfies all of the 
following:
1.  It is signed by the health care provider or an agent of the health care 
provider and the individual patient, the patient’s legal representative, or a 
representative of the patient’s employer.
2.  It allows either party to terminate the agreement upon written notice.
3.  It describes and quantifies the specific primary care services that are 
provided under the agreement.
4.  It specifies the subscription fee for the agreement and specifies terms for 
termination of the agreement.
5.  It specifies the duration of the agreement.2025 - 2026  Legislature
SENATE BILL 4- 2 - LRB-0507/1
JPC:emw
6.  It prohibits the provider and patient from billing an insurer or any other 
third party on a fee-for-service basis for the primary care services included in the 
subscription fee under the agreement.
7.  It prominently states, in writing, several provisions, including that the 
agreement is not health insurance and the agreement alone may not satisfy 
individual or employer insurance coverage requirements under federal law; that the 
patient is responsible for paying, or directing the patient’s employer to pay, the 
provider for all services that are not included in the subscription fee under the 
agreement; that the patient is encouraged to consult with a health insurance 
advisor, the patient’s health insurance carrier, or the patient’s employer-sponsored 
health plan, as applicable, before entering into the agreement; and that direct 
primary care fees might not be credited toward deductibles or out-of-pocket 
maximum amounts under any health insurance the patient has.
Under the bill, a health care provider may not decline to enter into or 
terminate a direct primary care agreement with a patient solely because of the 
patient’s health status.  The bill allows a health care provider to decline to accept a 
patient for a direct primary care agreement only if the health care provider’s 
practice has reached its maximum patient capacity or if the patient’s medical 
condition is such that the health care provider is unable to provide the appropriate 
level and type of primary care services the patient requires.  A health care provider 
may terminate a direct primary care agreement with a patient only if the patient or 
the patient’s employer fails to pay the subscription fee, the patient fails repeatedly 
to adhere to the treatment plan, the patient has performed an act of fraud related to 
the direct primary care agreement, the patient is abusive in a manner described in 
the bill, the health care provider discontinues operation as a direct primary care 
provider, or the health care provider believes that the relationship is no longer 
therapeutic for the patient due to a dysfunctional relationship between the provider 
and the patient.
The people of the state of Wisconsin, represented in senate and assembly, do 
enact as follows:
SECTION  1.  146.78 of the statutes is created to read:
146.78   Direct primary care agreement.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  “Direct primary care agreement” means a contract between a health care 
provider and an individual patient or the patient's legal representative or employer 
in which the health care provider agrees to provide primary care services to the 
individual patient for an agreed-upon subscription fee and period of time.2025 - 2026  Legislature
SENATE BILL 4- 3 - LRB-0507/1
JPC:emw
SECTION  1
(b)  “Health care provider” means a health care provider under s. 146.81 (1) (a) 
to (p) that provides primary care services under the health care provider’s scope of 
practice.
(c)  “Primary care services” means outpatient, general health care services of 
the type provided by a main source for regular health care services for patients at 
the time a patient seeks preventive care or first seeks health care services for a 
specific health concern and includes all of the following:
1.  Care that promotes and maintains mental and physical health and 
wellness.
2.  Care that prevents disease.
3.  Screening, diagnosis, and treatment of acute or chronic conditions caused 
by disease, injury, or illness.
4.  Patient counseling and education.
5.  Provision of a broad spectrum of preventive and curative health care over a 
period of time.
6.  Coordination of care.
(2)  VALID AGREEMENT .  A health care provider and an individual patient or 
the patient’s legal representative or employer may enter into a direct primary care 
agreement.  A valid direct primary care agreement meets all of the following 
criteria:
(a)  The direct primary care agreement is in writing.
(b)  The direct primary care agreement is signed by the health care provider or 2025 - 2026  Legislature
SENATE BILL 4- 4 - LRB-0507/1
JPC:emw
SECTION  1
an agent of the health care provider and the individual patient, the patient’s legal 
representative, or a representative of the patient’s employer.
(c)  The direct primary care agreement allows either party to the direct 
primary care agreement to terminate the direct primary care agreement upon 
written notice to the other party subject to the requirements under sub. (3) for 
termination of the direct primary care agreement by the health care provider.
(d)  The direct primary care agreement describes and quantifies the specific 
primary care services that are provided under the direct primary care agreement.
(e)  The direct primary care agreement specifies the subscription fee for the 
direct primary care agreement and specifies terms for termination of the direct 
primary care agreement, including any possible refund of fees to the patient or the 
patient’s employer.
(f)  The direct primary care agreement specifies the duration of the direct 
primary care agreement.
(g)  The health care provider and the patient are prohibited from billing an 
insurer or any other 3rd party on a fee-for-service basis for the primary care 
services included in the subscription fee under the direct primary care agreement.
(h)  The direct primary care agreement prominently states, in writing, all of 
the following:
1.  The direct primary care agreement is not health insurance, and the direct 
primary care agreement alone may not satisfy individual or employer insurance 
coverage requirements under federal law.
2.  The individual patient is responsible for paying the health care provider for 2025 - 2026  Legislature
SENATE BILL 4- 5 - LRB-0507/1
JPC:emw
SECTION  1
all services that are not included in the subscription fee under the direct primary 
care agreement or directing the patient’s employer to pay the health care provider 
for all services that are not included in the subscription fee under the direct 
primary care agreement, if applicable.
3.  The patient is encouraged to consult with a health insurance advisor, the 
patient’s health insurance carrier, or the patient’s employer-sponsored health plan, 
as applicable, before entering into the direct primary care agreement regarding 
coverage options for health care services that may not be covered through the direct 
primary care agreement.
4.  Some services provided under the direct primary care agreement may be 
covered under any health insurance the patient has.
5.  Direct primary care fees might not be credited toward deductibles or out-of-
pocket maximum amounts under the patient’s health insurance, if the patient has 
health insurance.
(3)  PATIENT  SELECTION ; TERMINATION .  (a)  A health care provider may not 
decline to enter into a direct primary care agreement or terminate a direct primary 
care agreement with a patient solely because of the patient’s health status.  A 
health care provider may decline to accept a patient for a direct primary care 
agreement for only any of the following reasons:
1.  The health care provider’s practice has reached its maximum patient 
capacity.
2.  The patient’s medical condition is such that the health care provider is 2025 - 2026  Legislature
SENATE BILL 4- 6 - LRB-0507/1
JPC:emw
SECTION  1
unable to provide the appropriate level and type of primary care services the 
patient requires.
(b)  A health care provider may terminate a direct primary care agreement 
with a patient for only any of the following reasons:
1.  The patient or the patient’s employer fails to pay the subscription fee.
2.  The patient repeatedly fails to adhere to the treatment plan recommended 
by the health care provider.
3.  The patient has performed an act of fraud related to the direct primary care 
agreement.
4.  The patient is abusive and presents an emotional or physical danger to the 
staff or other patients of the health care provider.
5.  The health care provider discontinues operation as a health care provider 
under direct primary care agreements.
6.  The health care provider believes that the relationship is no longer 
therapeutic for the patient due to a dysfunctional relationship between the health 
care provider and the patient.
(c)  Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the application of s. 
106.52 to a health care provider’s practice.
(4)  INSURANCE  NETWORK  PARTICIPATION .  A health care provider who has a 
practice in which the health care provider enters into direct primary care 
agreements may participate in a network of a health insurance carrier only to the 
extent that the health care provider is willing and able to comply with the terms of 
the participation agreement with the health insurance carrier and meet any other 2025 - 2026  Legislature
SENATE BILL 4- 7 - LRB-0507/1
JPC:emw
SECTION  1
terms and conditions of network participation as determined by the health 
insurance carrier.
(5)  CONSTRUCTION .  Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the 
regulatory authority of the department of safety and professional services or the 
department of agriculture, trade and consumer protection.  Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to limit the authority of the office of the commissioner of 
insurance to regulate contracts that do not satisfy the criteria to be a valid direct 
primary care agreement under sub. (2) and that meet the definition of insurance 
under s. 600.03 (25).
SECTION  2.  600.01 (1) (b) 13. of the statutes is created to read:
600.01 (1) (b) 13.  Valid direct primary care agreements under s. 146.78 (2).
(END)