2025 - 2026  LEGISLATURELRB-1618/1
MPG:cdc&wlj
2025 ASSEMBLY BILL 57
February 24, 2025 - Introduced by Representatives ORTIZ-VELEZ , HONG, ARNEY , 
BARE, BROWN , CLANCY , CRUZ, DESMIDT , GOODWIN , HAYWOOD , JOERS , KIRSCH , 
MADISON , MAYADEV , MOORE  OMOKUNDE , NEUBAUER , PHELPS , PRADO , RIVERA -
WAGNER , ROE, SINICKI , SNODGRASS , SUBECK  and TENORIO , cosponsored by 
Senators CARPENTER , DRAKE , LARSON  and RATCLIFF . Referred to Committee 
on Criminal Justice and Public Safety. 
 
  ***AUTHORS SUBJECT TO CHANGE***
AN ACT to create  20.932 of the statutes; relating to:  requirements concerning 
assistance in the detention of individuals who are or are alleged to be not 
lawfully present in the United States.
Analysis by the Legislative Reference Bureau
Under this bill, no official, employee, or agent of a state agency or other body in 
state government or a local governmental unit, including any law enforcement 
officer, may aid in the detention of an individual if the individual is being detained 
on the sole basis that the individual is or is alleged to be not lawfully present in the 
United States.  The bill applies only to a detention that occurs in a public building 
or facility, school, place of worship, place where child care services are provided, or 
place where medical or other health care services are provided.  Also, the bill does 
not prohibit any state or local government official from providing access to any place 
or facility as required pursuant to a properly executed judicial warrant.
The bill further provides that, except as required pursuant to a properly 
executed judicial warrant, no person employed or otherwise lawfully present at a 
public building or facility, school, place of worship, place where child care services 
are provided, or place where medical or other health care services are provided may 
be required to provide access to such facility or place or otherwise aid federal 
officials for purposes of the detention of an individual at such facility or place who is 1
2
32025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 57- 2 - LRB-1618/1
MPG:cdc&wlj
SECTION  1
being detained on the sole basis that the individual is or is alleged to be not lawfully 
present in the United States.
Finally, the bill prohibits any state agency or other body in state government 
from expending any moneys to aid in the detention of an individual in this state if 
the individual is being detained on the sole basis that the individual is or is alleged 
to be not lawfully present in the United States.
The people of the state of Wisconsin, represented in senate and assembly, do 
enact as follows:
SECTION  1.  20.932 of the statutes is created to read:
20.932  Requirements concerning assistance in the detention of 
certain individuals.   (1)  DEFINITIONS .  In this section:
(a)  XLocal governmental unit Y means a political subdivision, a special purpose 
district, an agency or corporation of a political subdivision or special purpose 
district, a school district, or a combination or subunit of any of the foregoing, in this 
state.
(b)  XState agency Y means an association, authority, board, department, 
commission, independent agency, institution, office, society, or other body in state 
government created or authorized to be created by the constitution or any law.
(2)  PROHIBITING  ASSISTANCE  BY STATE  AND LOCAL  OFFICIALS .  (a)  No official, 
employee, or agent of a state agency or local governmental unit, including any law 
enforcement officer, may aid in the detention of an individual if the individual is 
being detained on the sole basis that the individual is or is alleged to be not lawfully 
present in the United States and the detention occurs in a building or facility owned 
or operated by a state agency or local governmental unit, school, place of worship, 
place where child care services are provided, or place where medical or other health 
care services are provided.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
182025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 57- 3 - LRB-1618/1
MPG:cdc&wlj
SECTION  1
(b)  Paragraph (a) does not prohibit an official, employee, or agent of a state 
agency or local governmental unit from providing access to any place or facility as 
required pursuant to a properly executed judicial warrant.
(3)  NO ASSISTANCE  REQUIRED  ABSENT  JUDICIAL  WARRANT .  Except as required 
pursuant to a properly executed judicial warrant, no person employed or otherwise 
lawfully present at a facility owned or operated by a state agency or local 
governmental unit, school, place of worship, place where child care services are 
provided, or place where medical or other health care services are provided may be 
required to provide access to such facility or place or otherwise aid federal officials 
for purposes of the detention of an individual at such facility or place who is being 
detained on the sole basis that the individual is or is alleged to be not lawfully 
present in the United States.
(4)  EXPENDITURE  OF STATE  FUNDS .  No state agency may expend moneys to aid 
in the detention of an individual in this state if the individual is being detained on 
the sole basis that the individual is or is alleged to be not lawfully present in the 
United States.
(END)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17