2025 - 2026  LEGISLATURELRB-2247/1
FFK:skw
2025 ASSEMBLY BILL 74
February 28, 2025 - Introduced by Representatives FRANKLIN , BEHNKE , BRILL, 
DITTRICH , B. J ACOBSON , KNODL , KREIBICH , MELOTIK , MURPHY , MURSAU , 
O'C ONNOR , STEFFEN , TITTL, WICHGERS  and KAUFERT , cosponsored by 
Senators TOMCZYK  and NASS. Referred to Committee on Criminal Justice and 
Public Safety. 
 
  ***AUTHORS SUBJECT TO CHANGE***
AN ACT to create  118.07 (6) of the statutes; relating to:  parental notification of 
alleged sexual misconduct by a school staff member.
Analysis by the Legislative Reference Bureau
This bill requires each school board, governing body of a private school, and 
operator of a charter school to notify a pupil [s parent or guardian if the school 
board, governing body, or operator receives a credible report alleging sexual 
misconduct by a school staff member and the pupil is identified as an alleged 
victim, target, or recipient of the misconduct.  Under the bill, a school board, 
governing body, or operator must notify the pupil [s parent or guardian by no later 
than the end of the day on which the school board receives the report containing the 
alleged sexual misconduct.  Under the bill, a report is considered to be received by a 
school board or operator of a charter school when it is received by an assistant 
principal, principal, assistant school district superintendent, school district 
superintendent, or school district administrator, and is considered to be received by 
the governing body of a private school when it is received by an assistant principal, 
principal, superintendent, executive director, or other individual who acts as the 
administrative head of the private school.
Under current law, it is a Class I felony for a school staff member to commit an 
act of sexual misconduct against a pupil.  Under current law and the bill, Xsexual 
misconduct Y means 1) communications made intentionally to sexually degrade, 
sexually humiliate, sexually arouse, or sexually gratify the pupil or the perpetrator 
or 2) intentional touching by the perpetrator or, upon the perpetrator [s instruction, 1
22025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 74- 2 - LRB-2247/1
FFK:skw
SECTION  1
by the use of a body part or object, if the purpose of the intentional touching is to 
sexually degrade, sexually humiliate, sexually arouse, or sexually gratify the pupil 
or the perpetrator.
The bill also requires school boards to annually provide information about how 
parents and guardians may access records related to school employee discipline 
under the state public records law.
For further information see the local fiscal estimate, which will be printed as 
an appendix to this bill.
The people of the state of Wisconsin, represented in senate and assembly, do 
enact as follows:
SECTION  1.  118.07 (6) of the statutes is created to read:
118.07 (6) (a)  Each school board, governing body of a private school, and 
operator of a charter school shall, by no later than the end of the day on which a 
credible report alleging sexual misconduct, as defined in s. 948.098 (1) (d), by a 
school staff member, as defined in s. 948.098 (1) (c), is received, shall notify the 
parents or guardians of each pupil alleged to be a victim, target, or recipient of the 
alleged sexual misconduct by the school staff member.  For purposes of this 
paragraph, a report is considered to be received by a school board or the operator of 
a charter school when it is received by an individual employed by the school district 
or operator of the charter school and for purposes of that employment the individual 
is required to hold a license issued by the department under s. PI 34.066 or 34.067, 
Wis. Adm. Code.  For purposes of this paragraph, a report is considered to be 
received by the governing body of a private school when it is received by an 
individual employed by the governing body of the private school as an assistant 
principal, a principal, or an administrator, as defined in s. 118.60 (1) (ad).
(b)  Each school board shall annually provide parents and guardians with 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
162025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 74- 3 - LRB-2247/1
FFK:skw
SECTION  1
information regarding their rights to access records regarding school employee 
discipline under subch. II of ch. 19.
SECTION  2.  Initial applicability.
(1)  This act first applies to a credible report alleging sexual misconduct by a 
school staff member that is received on the effective date of this subsection.
(END)1
2
3
4
5
6