2025 - 2026  LEGISLATURELRB-0122/1
MCP&FFK:skw
2025 ASSEMBLY BILL 98
March 3, 2025 - Introduced by JOINT  LEGISLATIVE  COUNCIL . Referred to Committee 
on State Affairs. 
 
  ***AUTHORS SUBJECT TO CHANGE***
AN ACT to create  118.335 of the statutes; relating to:  pupils wearing 
traditional tribal regalia at a graduation ceremony or school-sponsored event.
Analysis by the Legislative Reference Bureau
This bill is explained in the N OTES  provided by the Joint Legislative Council in 
the bill.
The people of the state of Wisconsin, represented in senate and assembly, do 
enact as follows:
JOINT  LEGISLATIVE  COUNCIL  PREFATORY  NOTE :  This bill was prepared for the 
Joint Legislative Council [s Special Committee on State-Tribal Relations.
Wisconsin law contains some general protections for a pupil [s religious beliefs, 
ancestry, creed, race, and national origin. Specifically, schools must provide for the 
reasonable accommodation of a pupil [s sincerely held religious beliefs with regard to all 
examinations and other academic requirements. Additionally, no student may be denied 
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be discriminated against in any curricular, 
extracurricular, pupil services, recreational, or other program or activity because of 
race, religion, national origin, ancestry or creed. However, current law does not 
explicitly address an American Indian student [s right to wear traditional tribal regalia 
at a graduation ceremony or school-sponsored event.
This bill provides that school boards and charter schools may not prohibit a pupil 
who is a member of, a descendent of a member of, or eligible to be enrolled in, a federally 
recognized, whether currently or in the past, American Indian tribe or band from 1
22025 - 2026  Legislature
ASSEMBLY BILL 98- 2 - LRB-0122/1
MCP&FFK:skw
SECTION  1
wearing traditional tribal regalia at a graduation ceremony or school-sponsored event. 
The bill defines Xtraditional tribal regalia Y as a tribe [s traditional dress or recognized 
objects of religious or cultural significance, including tribal symbols, beads, and 
feathers.
SECTION  1.  118.335 of the statutes is created to read:
118.335   Tribal regalia at graduation ceremonies or school-sponsored 
events.   (1)  In this section:
(a)  XTraditional tribal regalia Y means a tribe [s traditional dress or recognized 
objects of religious or cultural significance, including tribal symbols, beads, and 
feathers.
(b)  XTribeY means a federally recognized American Indian tribe or band or an 
American Indian tribe or band that was previously a federally recognized American 
Indian tribe or band.
(2)  No school board or charter school may prohibit a pupil who is any of the 
following from wearing traditional tribal regalia at a graduation ceremony or 
school-sponsored event:
(a)  A member of a tribe.
(b)  A descendent of a member of a tribe.
(c)  Eligible to be enrolled as a member of a tribe.
(END)1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16